In an otherwise identical version, additional information is given. Information on the cover sheet of the deleted version is given below, The date on the top of page 2561B is "April 10, 1939."
Written by: Miss Grace McCune
Area 6-Athens 
Edited by: Mrs. Sarah H. Hall
Area 6-Athens 
John N. Booth 
Area Supervisor 
Federal Writers' Project
Area 6 and 7 Augusta, Ga. 
April 17, 1939
Athens, Georgia
Vincent Matthews (white) 
Capt. Fred L, Seagraves (white) 
Miss Grace McCune, writer 
Mrs. Sarah H. Hall and John N. Booth, revisers
A SESSION OF THE CITY COURT
The daily line-up of prisoners begins promptly at six o'clock in the afternoon in the courtroom at the City Hall.
Arriving on the scene a few minutes before time for the session to begin, I observed the crowd closely. One side of the courtroom was reserved for white people, and Negroes occupied the opposite side of the main aisle. Negroes were in the majority and were apparently very restless and nervous. They kept turning and twisting as if anywhere else would be preferable to their present surroundings, and those on the front row displayed more uneasiness than the others. 
With the exception of a young man who appeared quite miserable and apprehensive, the white people were more poised, and most of them seemed to be there for the purpose of hearing and watching the court procedure. Upon looking around I made two discoveries - First, that I was the only white woman present, and also that I seemed to be a center of attraction as everyone was staring at me, and I suddenly realized that they were expecting to hear my case called, and speculating as to the nature of my transgression. 
There was a sudden hush as the Judge and clerk walked in the courtroom. As they took their seats the clock in the City Hall tower started striking six. The last echo had scarcely died away when the Judge wielded his gavel and the City Court opened its session. 
The Judge instructed the clerk to call the first case on the docket. Referring to a book before him, the clerk called out:
"Case No. 708, Jack Smith, white." No one answered, and the procedure was, as follows:
Judge: "What it this case?"
Clerk: "Plain drunk. He put up a cash bond of $5.75"
Judge: "Bond forfeited." 
Case No. 710 was called, and it proved to be a charge against a white man for traffic violation. The Judge stated that because this was a first offense, a probation sentence had been given privately. 
Case No. 711 was called but there was no response, and I soon learned from the remarks of the Judge and clerk that another white man had forfeited his bond of $5.75 by his failure to appear to defend the "plain drunk" charge against him. 
Case No. 712 was called and there was no response. The clerk explained that the case was made because of the failure of the defendant to provide himself with a license, but that this matter had been promptly attended to. The case was dismissed. 
Case No. 714 was for parking on the wrong side of the street, and a cash bond was forfeited by the non-appearance of the defendant, and case No. 715 was disposed of in the same manner before I could ascertain the nature of the offense.
Case Nos. 7l6 and 717 were also disposed of by forfeiture of cash bonds, but when case No. 718 was called, the young white man who had appeared so nervous and miserable before the arrival of the Judge and clerk, walked slowly down the aisle and stood before the Judge. 
Judge: "What is the charge?"
Clerk: "Speeding."
Judge: "Witness?"
A policeman came forward and after he had repeated the oath, the case proceeded. 
Judge: "Officer, what do you know about this case?" 
Officer: "Judge, I caught him going forty miles an hour on Broad Street."
Judge: "Young man, what hare you to say? Are you guilty, or not guilty?" 
Defendant: "Judge, I didn't know I was going that fast." 
Judge: "That is the trouble with you boys. You never stop to think. I have been hearing a lot about your driving. It seems that you are always going too fast. I'll give you some time off from driving, so that you can think about it. Your fine is $50, and your license is suspended for sixty days. I'd better not catch you driving during that time either, unless you want a sentence of ninety days at hard labor." 
Case No. 721 and 722 forfeited cash bonds by non-appearance but when case No. 723 was called a well-dressed young Negro, who had been seated on the front row, walked slowly to the bar. In any other surroundings his well-groomed appearance would hare added to his self-possession, but his cowed demeanor indicated that under present circumstances, nothing gave him much comfort. The clerk explained the charge as "cursing and disorderly conduct," and two policemen were sworn in as witnesses. 
Judge: "Officers, what do you know about this case?" 
Officer: "Judge, we found him cursing and using profane language on the sidewalk on Madison Avenue, near the bridge. "
Judge: "Boy, what is your name and address?" 
Defendant: "Sam Jones is my name, and I just stays here on Sadday nights."
Judge: "If you do not live here, why are you here on Saturday nights? Do your people live here?" 
Defendant: "Naw sir, I just visits here." 
Judge: "Whom do you visit here every weekend?"
Defendant: "I just stays wid Susie Mae." 
Judge: "You said that you did not live here." 
Defendant: "I sho don't live here. I just visits wid Susie Mae on Sadday nights and Sundays." 
Judge: "Who is Susie Mae?" 
Defendant: "She is Susie Mae Smith, and I just visits wid 'er." 
Judge: "Well, what do you mean by cursing in public on the sidewalk?" 
Defendant: "Judge, I didn't know hit was 'ginst de law to cuss on de sidewalk. I don't live here and I don't know all de law."
Judge: "Well, in that case, you can just stay here and learn the law. I sentence you to sixty days in the stockade." Turning to the officers he said, "See that he works. That will help him to learn the law." 
When the next case came up the clerk called a roll of eight names, but only three persons answered, one Negro man and two Negro women. 
Judge: "What is the charge?" 
Clerk: "Disturbing the peace of the neighborhood." 
The same two officers who had testified against Susie Mae's visitor were sworn in.
Judge: "Officers, what do you know about this case?" 
Officer: "Judge, we have been having many complaints about these folks for some time. They run a roughhouse, and the white folks that live near the neighborhood say that they can't get any rest at night for the noise from this crowd. They dance and sing, and keep that nickel-slot piano going 'most all night. We went there two weeks ago and told them they would have to cut out the dancing and fuss after eleven o'clock, so that the other people could get some rest at night. But they didn't do it and we had more complaints, and that they were especially rough on Saturday nights. So we went back Saturday night after eleven o'clock, and they were having a big dance. The piano was going loud, and they were singing also, and in fact most of them were drunk. And they do run a roughhouse." 
Judge: "Where are the others?" 
Clerk: "The people that they work for put up cash bonds for them." 
Judge: "Bonds are forfeited by absentees." To the Negro man he said: "What hare you to say about this? Guilty or not guilty?" 
Defendant: "Well, Judge, it's like this; these mens did come 'round there and tell 'em. But you knows that I have to work, and I just cain't stay there all da time." 
Judge: "How much do you get for the whiskey that you sell there?" 
Defendant: "Judge, I ain't sold no whiskey there." 
Judge: "Yet everybody says that you do." 
Defendant: "But, Judge, I ain't never sold no whiskey there," pleaded the Negro. He was twisting his shabby cap around in his hands, standing on first one foot and then the other, watching the Judge.
Judge: "Is that your house?" 
Defendant: "Well, I stays there."
Laughter swept the room, and the Judge rapped for order, saying to the Negro: "Well, I'll give you sixty days at hard labor in the stockade, and it will help you to learn where you actually do live." 
The Negro sank back in his chair with a long breath of relief, as though the sentence was much less than he had anticipated. 
The two Negro women were awaiting their turn. One wore a neat dark brown dress, and her sleek hair had apparently undergone some straightening process. There was an impudent expression on her painted face as she waited for the Judge to speak. 
The other woman was dressed in a dirty, wrinkled print dress and wore old shapeless shoes. Bushy hair framed her defiant face, with its bleary eyes, and she appeared to have just gotten out of bed. Looking them over, the Judge asked, "What are your names?" There was no answer. After waiting a few minutes, he repeated, "'What are your names?" Still no answer. I could almost see the fire flash in his eyes as he observed their impudent and sullen manner. 
Judge: "You, there, with the bushy head, I'm talking to you, can't you talk!" 
Defendant: "Yassir, I sho kin talk." 
Judge: "Well, why didn't you answer my question? What is your name? Where do you work?" 
Defendant: "I don't work nowhere, 'cause I ain't been here long enough to find no work." She did not tell her name.
Judge: "How long have you been here then?" 
Defendant: "Not long, I'se just been staying here."
Judge: "Were you in that crowd that was dancing and raising so much disturbance that it kept the whole neighborhood awake?"
Defendant: "Judge, I ain' t never knowed that it was 'ginst the law to dance before this." 
Judge: "It was not the dancing. It is the fact that no one in that neighborhood can rest at night, for the noise and disturbance that comes from that house. There is always some complaint about it, and it has got to stop. And as you can't even tell your name, try sixty days in the stockade and you will have plenty of work to do, as well as time to recall your name." 
The Judge spoke to the other woman: "Have you got a name?"
Defendant: "Yassir, I has." she leered impudently at him. 
Judge: "Well, I see that you can't talk either, and I don't suppose that you were dancing with the others." 
Defendant: "Judge, I didn't never know it was 'ginst the law to dance in your own house."
Judge: "I have tried to explain that it was not just the dancing. It was the disturbance that you people raised with your dancing, and from the complaints that we have had from that place, it seems to be more than just a dance place. I will let you think it over while you serve sixty days in the stockade at hard work." 
The defendants in the next half dozen or more cases forfeited small bonds by non-appearance. The next bond forfeited was of more consequence. This defendant charged with being "drunk and driving an automobile," forfeited a cash bond of $100 by non-appearance. 
Clerk: "Judge, that completes the cases for this court." 
The Judge spoke to the waiting officers. 
"Take these Negroes on out to the stockade now and see that they are put to work tomorrow morning." The down beat of the gavel preceded his announcement that court was dismissed until Tuesday at the same hour and place. The room was soon cleared, and the Judge turned to me, saying, "Young lady, I was just wondering what I was going to have to try you for. How did you like our court? It was very mild tonight, you should come sometime when I have more of the Negro cases." 
"It might be all right to watch and listen, Judge," I said, "but you know you surely can say 'sixty days' mighty easy."
The Judge laughed, "I suppose that it does seen that way to most of you, but you could see how they are. You cannot get anything out of them, and in fact, these really talked more tonight than they usually do, for most of the time they will just stand there like dumb creatures. And it is just impossible to get a Negro to testify against another Negro unless they are mad; then they just can't say enough. But if they are not mad, then it makes no difference with them when something happens, they just 'don't know,' and that is all that you can get out of them. 
"I just have to get hard with them, for that is the only way that we can do anything at all with them. I know for I tried to be easy, and they just took advantage of it, and that is why you think I can say 'sixty days' so easy. I have learned that it pays. But visit our court again, I will be glad to have you." 
On the following day after I attended a session of the City Court, I visited the Judge in his office at the City Hall. He did not see me until he had completed a conference with the group that preceded me, then a flash of recognition swept over his face. "Good morning," he greeted me with a grin, "are you still anxious about getting 'sixty days?'"
"I hope it will not be that bad, Judge" I answered, "but I will be very appreciative if you will take the time to tell me of some of your experiences in presiding over your court."
He laughed good-naturedly. "Have a seat then," ha said, "I am not very good at telling things, but I will try, if it will be of any satisfaction to you."
The door opened to admit  tall, white-haired man, dressed in a dark blue business suit. I recognized him as a local tax official. 
"Come in," the Judge said, "You know this young lady, don't you?" 
"Of course, I do," he replied, "I knew her father many years ago." Turning to me he said: "What are you doing in the Judge's office? Don't you know that most of the people who come here to see him are begging for mercy in his court? However, I can assure you that you're safe today, for I see that he has left his red necktie at home." 
"What difference does the color of the tie make?" I questioned. 
Both men laughed, and the tax official said: "Well, if you have ever come in contact with Negroes such, you already know that they are very superstitious. Now I don't know how it all started, hut they will look at the Judge's tie the very first thing when they come in court, and if he has on a red tie, you can just almost see them give up hope. According to what the Negroes say: 'When de Judge comes into court wid a red tie on, you can jes' make up yo' mind dat you'se on da way to dat old stockade.'"
"Did you have on a red tie Monday evening. Judge?" I asked. 
The Judge grinned a little sheepishly and said: "Well I can say'sixty days" and'ninety days,' without any kind of a tie on." Turning to his friend, he said: "She attended court Monday evening, and she thinks I can say 'sixty days' too easy. Yet she wants me to tell her some of my experiences in holding court."
"Well," laughed the tax man, "you know my office is near the courtroom. and I don't think it would hurt a bit for me to give you some advice before you talk to the Judge, and then you'll know what to expect." 
"All right, go ahead, " the Judge said, "but if you are going to try to tell her all you have heard those Negroes say, you had better get you a chair and sit down, for it will take some little time." 
After complying with the Judge's suggestions, the tax man began his narrative: "One of their superstitions is this: 'Long as de Jedge sets back in his cheer, you'se got some chanct, but when you sees de Jedge lean over dat desk, den you can jes' look out, 'cause you might aa well go on and make up yo' mind dat you've gwine out on de road.'"
The Judge laughed and said, "And I have heard some of them say: 'T'aint no use in Jedge comin' to court when he feels bad, 'cause us can jes' go by his house for him to stick his haid out'en de window and say how many days. And 'course dat ain't gwine to be nothin' under sixty days.'"
The tax official soon went on his way, and the Judge leaned back in his chair. He is a man of medium height and weight, and on this day was clad in a dark blue business suit. His friendly personality holds the interest of the listener. "Well, he said, "did Blank tell you all you wanted to know?" 
"No, sir," I replied, "he only started it, and from what he said I feel safe in asking you to continue your story; that is, as long as you are 'a-settin' back in yo' cheer, and not leanin' over on yo' desk.'"
The Judge chuckled. "Don't take those Negroes too seriously, for they are not always right. As far as my story is concerned, I might begin by saying, I've been here for a long tine now, and this town is home to me. In fact, I was reared not very far from this building, and my maternal grandfather organized the Clarke Rifles here and went with them to the War between the States. It was during that war that he lost his life in Portsmouth, Virginia. So you see my roots go deep in this city. 
"While I do not mean to give you too close an idea of what my age is, I will tell you that I can even remember the old volunteer fire companies that used to play such a lively part in the civic life of this place. Oneof the fire halls was in the middle of the street in front of what is now the City Hall lot; that was the white man's fire hall. The hall for the Negro fire companies was just about a block down Washington Street toward Pulaski Street, in what had been known as the old 'Town Hall.' I was thinking of the old Town Hall, just the other day. It had a row of chinaberry trees in front of it, and a wall was right in front of the street. They called it Market Street at first, but we know it now as Washington Street. 
"I guess you have heard of the time that the old waterworks plant burned down. Why, yes, I can even remember that, and I will never forget the good work the old Hope Fire Company did that night. The water was pumped with an old steam boiler. There have been many changes in fire equipment and methods of fighting fire since those days. 
"I went to school here, and then I worked in a grocery store. It was the only real large one here, and do you know the first pavement in town was put down in front of that store. It was a brick pavement, and people thought it was a great improvement over the muddy street they had been accustomed to. My salary of $15 a week at the grocery store was considered good for a seventeen year old boy to earn for at that time grown man worked for $30 a month and called that a good salary. I never will forgot that first pay day when I drew $15 for a week's clerking. It was all in silver dollars. I had never had so much money at one time before, and how big I did feel! I carried every dollar of it home and laid it in my mother's lap, and she was almost as proud of it as I was. That was really the biggest pay day I have ever had. I have made more but no matter how great the increase in my earnings, no pay day has seemed so wonderful an occasion or no salary so important as those fifteen silver dollars did on my first pay day. 
"The first gasoline engine ever used in Athens was operated by that store in their coffee roasting department. We roasted, blended, and ground all the coffee sold by that store, and it does seem to me that some of that coffee prepared there was the best I ever drank. 
"After I had worked there for some time I took a business course, then went on the road as a salesman for that same grocery store, and for the next twenty-five years I was a traveling man. It was hard work, but worth it in more ways than one. The experiences that I had in those years have been worth more than a college education to me. I came in contact with all classes of people, and I was able to study human nature, and, in some measure, to understand it. 
"Those years of experience with the public have been worth more to me in my legal work than ever before. They have given me the understanding of people of all classes, that it is so necessary for me to have, if I am to administer justice.
"Mine is not an easy job. It is trying on the nerves, and especially so when some old mother comes to me to plead for her son. That really gets me; although in some of those instances, I know that the boy is getting no more punishment than he deserves. I always remember that no matter what he has done, he is still her boy, and there is nothing to compare with that dear old mother love."
"This is my ninth year as Recorder and Judge of the City Court, or rather of the Police Court, and I have tried to be just to everyone. When I first took this office the prisoners that were sent to the stockade for minor offenses were forced to wear the stripes. I didn't believe that was right, and I still don't think it was right. So I started out to get rid of stripes for first offenders and short-term prisoners. I want before the City Council and explained to them that it was my belief and understanding that all of the people convicted in city court are not actual criminals, and that I did not believe we were justified in forcing them to wear stripes unless they proved themselves to be unruly after they began serving their sentences. 
"Of course I could not expect to win them all to a unanimous agreement right at the start; some of them didn't, and some couldn't agree with me on that question, but after considering it for some time they granted my request. So now you do not see them in stripes if they are sent up for some minor offense, and do you know I am rather proud to think that I won that privilege for them, for although I am considered hard, I do have feeling and compassion for those who must be sentenced to prison. 
"It cannot be denied that some of them consider me heartless when they come before me on charges of operating an automobile while under the influence of liquor, and most of them will tell you that I show no favors when it comes to fines for that offense: that I hit them all the same. 
"To some degree that is correct, for I do try to treat them all the same. To me drunken driving is a very serious offense. Not only is the driver in danger himself, but he endangers the lives of everyone on the highway, whether they are pedestrians or drivers of other automobiles; no one is safe when he is on the road. No one has any business operating any kind of car when under the influence of liquor. 
"When most of the young people of today get into an automobile, they seem to feel like they just have to go as fast as the vehicle will run, and they make every effort to see how fast they can drive it. That is very dangerous, even when there is no liquor drinking involved. There is never any telling when some of those speeders are going to get killed or kill someone else. At first, I tried giving them light fines and a severe reprimand on the occasion of the first offense, and dealing heavier with them the second time they were brought before me.
"That did no good, for the reason that it was the parents who had to pay the fines, and the young people were not inconvenienced or embarrassed in any way, so next day they ware out trying the same thing over again. It did make it hard on the parents, for some of them had to work hard to pay those fines for their children. Then I decided to try something else and now when they are caught for speeding, I suspend their drivers license for a limited time, and the results have been far batter than came from just a fine. 
"For the first offense, I try to be light on them, but if that does no good, then I make a longer suspension of license next time, and I have suspended them for as long as six months. I do not believe there is any way to entirely stop speeding and reckless driving, but I am doing as much as I can to remedy this evil, and the results are showing improvement.
"Many times when people are up before me for one offense or another other people that know them will come to me and we talk matters over. In case of a first offense, if it is the very first time they have been in trouble, I am always glad to give them a chance again with a probation sentence. If they actually want to do better, they always take advantage of that chance. But if they appear before me for the second offense, then they must take a sentence just like anyone else.
"On going through my books for the past year, I found that 710 cases had been dismissed or given probation sentence, and I think that proves that I do try to help instead of being so hard as they say I am. It is my sincere desire to help, rather than punish, but there are times when I cannot do anything else but levy a heavy fine, a prison sentence, or both. 
"Conditions were terrible among prisoners before our free clinic was established here. When I was made Recorder, I investigated this and found that at least 90% of the inmates of the stockade were diseased in some way. The close confinement of so many together was the means of spreading the maladies among many previously healthy people. To me it seemed criminal for us to force them to risk infection of loathsome diseases, when it could be prevented. It was alarming to think about. 
"I went to our Mayor and explained the congested conditions that I found in the stockade, and we went to work to get a clinic set up here, that would give free, or partially free treatment to people who couldn't afford to pay a doctor to look after them. I do not know of anyone that worked more earnestly for this clinic over a longer period of time, than our mayor did, before we were finally successful in getting funds set up to provide for our clinic. 
"My, what a blessing that has proven to be to humanity! How you will not find more than 10% of the prisoners at the stockade diseased in any way. The clinic has grown and improved until we have an efficient organization, one of the very best, and it takes care of those that need it most. I am proud of it, and I think that a great deal of credit is due the Mayor for his hard work in trying to provide this service for the sick people who are not able to pay for their own medical care. 
"The Judge on the stand must make his own decisions. He cannot stop to consult with others there. He must endeavor to understand both sides of each case and then use his own judgement in passing sentence. It all has to be done so quickly that there is no time for study and deliberation before a decision mast be handed down.
"Negroes have always provided the greatest number of my legal problems. As a race, they are easily excited, and will kill each other over just 'most any little thing. But get them in court and prevail on them to testify against each other! That is just impossible, unless they have sworn out the warrant themselves, and even then they may decide to maintain their stubborn silence that you witnessed yesterday. But when one Negro is prosecuting another of his race, sometimes they will tell everything they can think of, and on those occasions we do hear some weird tales. 
"When oar officers catch any of them breaking the law - and it makes no difference if the ones brought in as witnesses, are known to have been on the scene of the crime, if not even, participating in it - the only answer that can be gotten out of them is, "Ah doan' know!' Yes, it is amusing, but it is also aggravating, but what can you do about it?
"How times have changed since I got my first pay envelope so many years ago! Then calico was selling for 15 a yard, and cotton was 5 a pound, and since then we have all seen cotton bringing more than forty cents a pound, and no calico to be found for leas than 25 a yard. Trends in prices rise and fall as the years go on. I still have some old bills that a farmer out in Madison County paid my father when he was operating a store in 1859. Cotton was put in round bales of about three hundred pounds each in those days." 
Someone knocked on the door. It was ayoung man that wanted to see the Judge, and stated that his business was important. Realizing my interview was over, I thanked the Judge for taking up so much time to tell me about his life history, and started toward the door. He called after me: "Come back to see me and we will talk some more, and come around to my court any time, I will be glad to have you, and I will try not to give you more than 'sixty days.'"
A Session of the City Court - Judge Ga. Excellent
Actual court session - humorous discussion by tax collector of negro attitudes toward "Jedge". - Judge's reminiscences - in nine years as Judge has done away with stripes for first offenders - uses probation - suspend sentence liberally discussion offenders and his attitudes - advantages of social disease clinics
Features: Commonsense attitude of minor court judge to offenders, most of whom are not criminals.
Names of persons but not places changed. 
