S.T. Daniel Farm
Pleasant Hill, N.C.
Dec. 6, 1938
B.K.H.
Mrs. Althy Cooke
"Everthing's in a stew," Mrs. Cooke apologizes, seizing her patching and thrusting it into a chair.
"I can't see you. Who is it?" Dan rises and sits on the edge of the quilt that covers his bed, facing the western window; the sun shines dazzlingly into his eyes; he does not flinch.
The wife introduces the visitor.
"I ain't what you'd call down in the bed; I ain't sick on  the stomach, and I don't hurt nowhere particular. My blood pressure stays high all the time, and I got hardenin' of the arteries, they say." 
"I begun to lose my sight two or three years ago, but it didn't go clean out till six months back. I can't see nothin' now, When they take me to Seaboard I don't even know when I get there.
"I don't know what caused me to go blind or to give way in health like I has. I ain't no old man; I ain't but sixty four.
"If it's anything like cataracts -"
"No'm, it seems to be jes' played out. They say if you live rough when you're young it'll come down on you when you get along in years. I was pretty rough in my young days. I drinker and cut up right smart, no harm, just fun. Me and my daddy and brothers use to go out to Seaboard when they was a open bar-room there and get tanked up; then we'd take the street and slap our hands and dance and sing, lie around on the ground maybe, when we couldn't stagger no longer. Old man Bradley'd come along and take us to the lock-up - it use to be about where Bullock's fillin' station is now - to keep us from strolling' over to the railroad track and gettin' runned over by the night train; he looked after us. I've lay in the lock-up a many a night soberin' up. We never done no harm to nobody, you understand; nobody was afraid of us. 
"My daddy use to make up songs when he'd get high, and we'd dance to 'em. One I remember went like this:
Down on the long branch
Where Garfield was foun' 
Sittin' by the pretty girl
When he was shot down.
They was a whole lot more, but I disremember it. I found out finally that drinkin' didn't pay, so I cut it out. For twenty years now I've lived the best I knotted how. All five of us belongs to the Baptist church up at Bethel."
Dan wants to spit; he feels around for his cuspidor. Nora jumps up quickly to hand him the tin can off its pedestal. 
"Me and Althy's been married twenty eight years. I didn't get married till I was thirty six. Then I found who I wanted, and I never courted long neither. She had to say somethin' to me quick."
The smile is almost a feature of Dan's face, like his nose.  Mrs. Cooke, very, serious, almost austere, corrects her husband to get the record straight. "We went together two or three years."
"I remember Jim McGhee, a magistrate over in Pleasant Hill married us. I ain't never regretted that step. We've got on good together, never had no fusses, or - 
"Fussin' tears me all to pieces." 
"She's been good to me, and I've done the best I could for her. Course I never had nothin' to give her - " She suddenly looks very little and meek by the blue chest -"but she knowed that before she took me. My folks was always sharecroppers and renters, never owned no land - "
"Mine neither. My father was Jack Birdsong. He share-cropped round in this neighborhood fust one place then another, fur back as I can remember." 
"Me and her has sharecropped with S. T. Daniel for twenty five years. Durin' that time we've moved three times to different houses on his farm; we've been here seven years, and I reckon we'll be right here when we die. Mr. Daniel's a good man, just like a brother to me. He and his brother either one will do anything in the world for us. We never had a cross word since we been workin' together. He don't bother with how we run our crop, let's us handle it to suit ourselves. When settlement time comes, he turns to his books and tells me how we stand, and I know it's right. Sometimes they ain't much left for me, but he can't halp that. You can bet your bottom dollar I get what's comin' to me. I know I ain't goin' to suffer nohow. 
"This year they'll be less than usual, like tis everywhere I reckon. We run a two-horse crop and won't get but two bales o' cotton, but we've done right good on peanuts - 225 bags. We'll get just half o' that you understand. Corn didn't turn-out as good as when I was up about and able to see to it, but they'll be enough to feed our two mules and the hogs. We own our team, and Mr. Daniel furnishes the fertilize. The boys tend to everything now I'm disable to work." 
"How old are they, Mrs. Cooke?" 
"John's sixteen, and Mont's eighteen. One son's married, and one's dead. Tom married one of the Male girls and sharecrops for hisself. Nora's the only girl. These three here with us has all the field work to do since me and him ain't able to work." 
"Is your health bad too, Mrs. Cooke?"
"Yeb'm. I got low blood pressure and pellagra."
"You can handle that with the right food, you know."
"Yeb'm , but I can't get the things I ought to eat. Dr. Parker said eat liver and fruit and vegetables and 'east, but I has to eat what we has, mostly hog meat and bread."
"He told me not to eat hog meat on account o' high blood pressure, but I do eat it some. I gets weak 'less I do."
"I want my meant." Little Nora makes it unanimous.
"All we has to boil this winter is greens; we planted turnips, but they didn't come up. The sweet 'taters done right good. We love 'em; we near 'bout live on sweet 'taters and meat." Mrs. Cooke takes off her shell-rimmed glasses and holds them in her lap.
"We got six hogs to kill, nice guns they tell me. I ain't seen 'em. We'll kill along sometime soon now so the woman folks'll have some fresh to cook for Christmas."
"what do you do Christmas for a good time, Mrs. Cooke?"
"Nothin'. Jes' stay home."
"How about you, Nora?"
"I just stay home too."
"You hang up your stocking of course."
"Yeb'm. I think it's cute to hang up stockin's. I don't know where anything will be put in mine this year or not."
"Bread and meat's 'bout all old Sandy can go," Dan laughs.
"Your boy friend will come and take you out I expect."
"I hain't got one."
"Your mother's listening."
"She hain't got nary one as I knows anything about," the mother declares.
"I wouldn't want to get married; times is too tight," Nora parrots, not that she is really convinced of it.
"You'll probably go to see the movies during the holidays?"
"No'm, I don't like movies. I never go to 'em. I just stay at home." 
"The boys goes sometimes." Mrs. Cooke is spontaneously helpful at last. "But Nora seems satisfied to stay here with me and her daddy. She can cook good as I can. As for me, I ain't been out'n the yard but once since we met at Mrs. Balmer's in October; that was to my married son's last Sunday evenin'." As though she has committed herself too far, Mrs. Cooke folds up. 
"Have you seen Mrs. Stancell since that afternoon?"
"Yeb'm. She come here once since."
"It's too bad the class had to be abandoned."
"Yes'm."
Dan comes to the rescue. "I hate for her to quit the class. I thought it was helpin' her; she could read better."
The pretty apron with pink flowers appliqued on it, the gift to the teacher, comes to mind. 
"I hain't made no more rugs since our last meetin'. In the day time I'm too busy, and nights I can't see. Nora, go bring my rug and needle. I'll show 'em how I hook a rug."
Nora runs with alacrity into the other bedroom where the boys sleep and returns with the exhibit rug, hooked in pink flowers, and the steel needle. Mrs. Cooke demonstrates timidly the technique of hooking. 
"Mrs. Stancell tuk off my chair cushions with her to show 'em in Raleigh."
"Mrs. Stancell was a fine woman," Dan beams. "It was nice for the women folks to meet here and at Ross's and Mrs. Peter Jordan's fust one time, then another. The evenin's they met, Tony Drewett come and took me out to ride. He's disable to work too, so we's company for each other. He has high blood pressure and other ailments so bad Dr. Parker took him to Duke this summer. He never stayed but one day. The doctors made him put on and off his clothes so much Tom told 'em to let him keep 'em off; he said his clothes got right slick, puttin' on and pullin' off. Tom's good to me; he don't hardly miss a day comin' to set and talk with me when the weather's pretty."
Another pause. Suddenly the little clock alarms. It finishes without any interference.
"It was set to alarm about four this mornin'," Nora explains. "That's when Mother wanted to get up. The boys are workin' in peanuts to-day."
The adult education class is again recalled, Mrs. Cooke's reading section on citizenship. 
"Yeb'm. The class learned me how to read again. I never went far'er'n the third grade when I was young. I reckon I'll soon get out'n practice now."
"These long nights invite reading."
"We got nothin' to read but The Roanoke Herald. (Roanoke Rapids weekly) We did take The Jackson News, but when they went up on the price, we dropped it."
"I never went to school a day in my life," Dan says. "We always had to work hard at my dadd's, no time for schoolin'. The boys went one to the third grade and t'other to fifth grade at Seaboard; they had to stop and take holt when I played out."
"I went to the sixth grade at Seaboard," Nora says. "I used to go in your room when I was little to warm, and the high school boys teased me. You remember it?"
"I never snowed how to figger and keep up with my account, but I can't say it was no disadvantage, 'cause I always farmed with good men that kept everything straight. 'Fore I was married, I worked for wages, after I was free. Me and her first sharecropped two years with Mr. Joe Cuthrell; he was a good man, big-hearted as the make 'em. Then we went to Mr. Joe Long's; he was a good man too. From there we come to Mr. Daniel, and we'll die with him I reckon."
Dan spits into the tin can and continues. "Mr. Daniel has got a little store in his yard, and he furnishes us out'n that. Whenever rations gives out I go get more, and they ain't nothin' said. He puts it on the book, and when we settle the store account's took out. I get what's left over if they is any. If anything's comin' to me I'll get it. Mr. Daniel wouldn't do me out'n a penny, him or his boys. We hain't settled yet for this year. Yeb'm, I gets my rental check; Mr. Daniel turns it over to me."
Althy admits that the house is not all to be desired. "When the wind blows right sharp, it's hard to heat this room on account o' the broken walls." She folds up again.
"Mr. Daniel said he was goin' to repair the plaster soon as he could. Money's tight with everybody this year. He'll fix it soon as he's able. This is a old house; it use to belong to Robert Edwards and to his daddy before him I reckon. We never heard o' no ha'nts here, nob'm. They ain't such a thing as ha'nts."
"They claim the old Woodruff house is ha'nted," Althy reminds Dan.
"Yeb'm. They say you can see lights all round over the house." There is no change of expression in Nora's face. "I never saw none."
"I did, many a time. But I never said nothin' 'bout it to the folks that lived there, 'cause I didn't want to scare 'em."
"Aw, they ain't no lights, just 'magination, at the Woodruff house. That chist come from there. I bought it one time at a sale. No tellin' how old it is. It was made out'n heart stuff and'll be here, long after we're gone."
Which reminds Dan of his family's frailty and doctor's bills. "The doctor costs us right smart in the course o' twelve months, as well as medicine. That's the biggest of our expenses besides our somethin' t'eat and clothes. All I get 'sides the crop is twenty dollars a month insurance on my disability. If'twa'n't for that it'd be a bad get along. I carried $2000, and that twenty dollars is the biggest we live on. I hain't never asked for no help, but I thought I'd try when I get one year older to get the old age pension. If I don't, I'll keep livin'. We ain't never goin' to parish. 
"Even if Mr. Daniel wa'n't here to see after us, the folks in Seaboard wouldn't let us suffer. I got faith to believe that. The gov'ment neither. Votin'? Yeb'm, I vote when I can get to Seaboard. We got a old car that's broke down, and it costs so much to fix it up and to run it we decided just to let it set."
"I've never voted," Mrs. Cooke says. "I never registered. I don't reckon I got no business votin'."
Nora does not know why she has not voted yet except that she did not register, nor does she know if she ever will vote. 
"As for ownin' a home and land of our own, I don't know whe'r I'd want to or not." Dan speaking. "As it 'tis, you don't have to pay no taxes, you're furnished all the year th'ugh whe'r you clear anything or no. You're sure of gettin' a livin' sharecroppin', where if you owed land and was your own man you might have to scuffle to get bread. 
"In another way, I reckon everybody'd like to own somethin'. One thing, if you owned your own home you could borrow money against it, if 'twas your'n."
Mrs. Althy Cooke - N.C.- Revision
Wife of blind sharecropper - sight went completely 6 months ago - attributes loss of sight to living rough life - drinking, etc. - Mrs. Cooke and her husband have sharecropped for one man for 25 years - both were children of sharecroppers - she attends adult education class - he never learned to read nor write nor figure - trusts to the honesty of his landlord - runs 2 horse crop - sons ages (ages 16 and 18) do the farming - another son married and sharecrops for himself - fourth child living is colorless girl (age 23) - Mrs. Cooke has pellagra - got 6 hogs to kill - reference to spirits (folklore) - he carried $2000 insurance from which he draws $20 per month for the disability - he votes - his womenfolk don't - "In another way, I reckon everybody'd like to own somethin'. One thing, if you owned your own home you could borrow money against it, if 'twas your'n." - one reason for owning one's own home. 
