POCKETS IN AMERICA
THE TURKS IN SUMTER COUNTY, SOUTH CAROLINA

A triangular area in Sumter County, lying between US 521 and US 76,
contains a settlement of strangely aloof, swarthy people known as Turks.
Their homes straggle over a territory known on old maps as the High Hills
of the Santee, near the town of Dalzell and the Stateburg community.

There is no geographical separation of these people into a closely knit
village; no characteristic marks their homes from those of Negroes living 
alongside, except a greater cleanliness. Poverty and lack of initiative are evident. Held together by a deep bond of loneliness, these are people unwanted and
unsought by both whites and Negroes.

Numbering roughly around 300, the Turks now have their own church, of the
Baptist denomination - a regularly accredited member of the Santee Baptist
Association, which is composed only of the white Baptists in that section.
They also have a separate school supported by the county, with a new building
at Dalzell. About 75 pupils are taught by four white teachers, the curriculum
including seven grammar grades. Teachers describe the children as bright
and eager to grasp lessons of modern hygiene and thrift and incorporate them
in their poverty-stricken homes.

Politically, these people rank as Democrats and vote as white people.
Their men served in the Civil and World Wars along with White soldiers.
In spite of such recognition and their rights as white citizens, the Turks are
classed by the surrounding white population along with Negroes. Mostly small
tenant farmers, day laborers and farm hands, they are hired by the white farmers
of the district indiscriminately along with Negroes. The Turks themselves,
however, rigidly preserve their racial identity and are intensely scornful of association or intermarriage with the Negro race, though meek and respectful
to the white.

The most commonly accredited theory as to the origin of the colony is that General Thomas Sumter, recruiting near Charleston during the Revolutionary
War, enlisted two men who had recently disembarked from a pirate ship. Whether
they were pirates or escaped ship's prisoners is uncertain. One of the two
was a Turk, Ben Ali. The other, said variously to have been of French or
English descent, called himself Scott, admitting that such was not his true
name. Ben Al and Scott served through the Revolution with General Sumter,
the first as his scout, the second as his bugler.

At the close of the war, the General rewarded both faithful recruits with
small farms near his estate in the Stateburg community. During his lifetime
he looked after their welfare and championed their standing as Caucassians.
Due to their swarthy appearance, insinuations concerning their race were common
and came to a head when their right to serve on a Sumter County jury was questioned. To settle the dispute, General Sumter was summoned. Walking into the room, the doughty and aristocratic Gamecock laid his pistol on the desk, and then very cordially shook hands with both his proteges, after which he inquired of those
present if there were still any doubt as to the men's being white.

According to common belief, Ben Ali and Scott married white sisters by the
name of Graham. Ben Ali's name became locally Benenhaly, but, though his given
name was Joseph, he was best known as Tom Turk. His daughter married an Oxendine,
thought to be a Redbone (Croatan), either from York County or North Carolina.
The descendants of these three families intermarried among themselves in truly
Biblical fashion and the names still predominating among them are Benenhaly and
Oxendine.

Mary Ann Benenhaly Oxendine, who was between 80 and 90 years old when she died within the past few years, well remembered Tom Turk, her great-grandfather,
who, she said, lived to a ripe old age.

Mary Oxendine had blue eyes, brown skin and straight white hair,
characteristics common to the present generation. Among the colony, typical
Negroid features are absent: flat noses, thick lips and kinky hair. Wrists and
ankles are commonly slender and in spite of dusky complexions, skins are
thin with a rosy tint.

When a white man or woman marries into the group, he or she and the
offspring of the union become accepted as Turks. Not so with the rare instances
of marriages with Negroes, one of which is remembered for its grim sequel.
Some 35 years ago one of the women married a Negro and was ostracized by her
fellow-Turks - and outcase even in death. On the ground that her mesalliance
ended her right to be a Turk, her burial was prohibited in the colony churchyard.
Her body was taken to the Negro cemetery, but there, too, it was refused admittance because she was not a Negro. The unwanted remains were finally 
granted the traditional six feet of earth in a family plot on one of the old
Stateburg plantations.

This is a people whose hand is raised against no man. On the contrary,
the Turks are self-respecting and law abiding, with high moral standards.
Rarely are illegitimate children born into their number.

Unobtrusively they go their lonely way. In spite of their Baptist affiliation, their Mohammedan ancestry has stamped them with an utter lack of spontaneous
joy. With tragic patience they apparently accept as unalterable their struggle
to exist in abject poverty. Fired with no zeal to unite in common endeavor,
beset with no adventurous spirit to roam beyond the limited radius in which they
have remained since the settling of their earliest progenitors, they remain a 
submerged and isolated group. It is kismet.

BIBLIOGRAPHY

Sumter, Thomas S.: Stateburg and Its People. pamphlet.

Personal observation and interviews with the Turks by Lucy G. Platt.













