Moses Alexander
Melpomene & Poydras Sts.
Interviewed 2/28/39
Submitted 3/3/39
"AH GOT RELIGION."
"Ev'ry man's got a right at a philosophy of life, facts is ev'ry man's got a philosophy. Mine is whiskey. Ah luves it. Facts is, thats what keeps me a sinner in mah own way. Cose, Ah aint no sinner in the way of the Lawd, cause the Lawd aint never said man aint got no right drinkin'. Them damn preachers brought that mess in the world."
If the above may be considered a philosophy of life, give credit of surmising it to Moses Alexander, an old crippled but carefree Negro who doesn't quite remember his age but thinks he is about seventy-eight years old. It isn't unusual for Moses to forget. He very often forgets his address. "The most important thing for me to re'member is when that worldfare (Welfare) check is comin'," he says.
Moses was sitting on a neighbor's step with his eyes looking far into empty space when contacted. He was alone, wearing a too-big black coat, blue overalls and a brown hat. An 1874 style walking cane was leaning by his side. Moses is a fine looking old man, having gray beards, keen features and a smooth black color. He speaks slowly but positively, looking you straight in the eyes. Every now and then Moses would hum a wordless tune, but he didn't know the name of it. When questioned how could he hum a tune without knowing its name, Moses remonstrated! "That Ah don't know. But there aint nothin' wrong wid mah memory, Ah jests fo'gits, thats all."
He continued: "Ah could say Ah was feeling fine but mah limbs is all stowed up. That rheumatism, you know. It gits you when you gits old. Boy, don't never git old. You don't know the hell of a fix you'll be in. Wish Ah'd never done it." Moses sat in idle reverie for a minute or two and then he spoke again: "I jest come down hyar to git mah stuff but it aint been issued yet. (He was referring to Welfare commodities) I got to be hyar a little bit longer. Cause Ah reckon these people got to take their time. (All of a sudden Moses became suspicious) You aint one of them mittes, is you? No? Thats right Ah done s-e-e-en you. (Moses was nervous; he was biting his words, because he slipped and told his philosophy of life) Them mittes don't want in you to drink up yo' money. They will cut you off, if they knows it. Ah'm sho glad you aint no mittee? Did you say lets take a little drink? (Moses has a very convenient way of hearing things) Ah reckon Ah drinks any thing, wine, whiskey, gin, like that. Oh well, anything thats drinkable. (He pulled his commodity card from his coat pocket) You see this blue card? This gits you the grub. The lady takes this and gazes at it. The number of them people you is got is on there. If you number one on it you git for one, if you got number two on it you git for two, and if you got three on you git for three. Mine is got two on it, so Ah git for two. Who is the two? Mah wife. Ah aint got her now though. Man, she's crazy. That fool went crazy prayin'. Used to wake up in the mornin' talkin' bout the devil says he was goin' to arrest her mind. Well, he did. She's arrested and rested right smack in Jackson. No, she aint never done me nothin'. Ah wouldn't let. Uh. Don't Ah look lak somebody whose got sense enough to git out a crazy woman's way? jest lak Ah can git out the rain Ah sho can git out of a crazy woman's way. No indeed! Ah aint never fo'got that. Man, thats jest lak fo'gittin' to duck from a Joe Louis punch."
It is too bad, but Moses forgot when all of this happened."Fo'give me, Ah done plum fo'got when mah wife went crazy. But Ah thinks that it must er been five yars ago." At this point, Moses was wiping his beards, sort of striking them like a man does who quickly finishes a strong drink. He cleared his throat too, "You know, Ah reckons that a man must not drink too much, but there aint nothin' wrong wid his drinkin' a little bit. Ah agress wid you. (His convenient memory was working again) Ah always say that men is human, they must be persuaded by their own 'pinions. Paul says that. And mah 'pinions is that a man can drink sufficient, and thats all."
And with that, Moses had us by the arm ushering us off to a barroom that was four blocks away. "Ah recollects that you is a fine young man. You looks the part. What chirch does you b'long? No chirch? A sinner! You a sinner? Not you? Whew! (Very softly) Me too. You didn't know that. Did you? b'tween me and you Ah got a better chance being white then gittin' in some of these churches er round hyar. Man, them people don't want me in them churches. Ah know the Lawd says all must. come, but not me. (He shook his head) The last time Ah was in a church Ah took an umbrella and slammed it right smack across the preacher's head. The sisters and the brothers got to honoring and b'fo Ah knowed it Ah was whuppin' up the whole church. Ah'm a fightin' sonofabitch when Ah gits mad. And nothin' makes me madder than a precher messin' er round wid a man's wife. Son, jest lak you see me, mah liquor makes me do some awful things. And mah liquor aint made me do nothin' wrong yet. ('We're still on our way to the barroom) This walkin' aint too good fo' me but you sho got to walk to git a drink, aint you? No indeed. Them people aint goin' to let me jine them churches. You know what they say? As soon as the preachers ask fo' members they say 'not him, Lawd, not him.' That makes me mad. Ah walk out, cause if Ah stay in and they make me mad Ah'll break up the whole church. Ah don't know how that started. Ah'm jest as good a christian as any body else. When me arid mah wife was b'longin' to the Pleasant Hill Baptist Church on North Robertson Street we had an argument right in the church. She come tellin' me that Ah was drunk and Ah wasn't. We went on and on. Sho, the preacher was preachin'. But she wouldn't shut up, and fo' Ah knows it Ah was hittin' her over the head and she started hollorin'. Them other wimmens was hollorin' too, sayin' 'aint it a shame?' Well, the preacher come breakin' at me, come tellin' me, 'old man, if you wasn't so old Ah would give you what you gave yo' wife.' Right there Ah let him hav a punch. B'fo Ah could looker round that preacher had a black eye. Some of them sisters says 'don't let Rev. hit that old man, he'll kill him.' Shucks, man, Rev. was goin' the other way from me. That wasn't the first time that happens. Ah used to always break up them churches. Don't get me wrong. Ah aint no sinner, or nothin' lak that. Ah Jests fo'gits when Ah been drinkin'.
"How Ah got r'ligion is a long story. Ah was a young man. Man, Ah was a mess. Wouldn't hav nothin' to do with a woman less she puts it on the line, Ah means on the line. One woman gav me a hundred dollars and stood up and saw me drink it up, treatin' the house. That happens in Lexington my boy, whar Ah made mah manhood. Ah was born in Richmond, Virginia. Sho, mah parents was slaves. Ah done fo'got them. They dead when Ah was a baby. The white folks told me Ah had good parents. The white folks took care of me till Ah left. Ah was workin' on the farm. Do in' everything. You see Ah always wanted to travel. Used to hear 'them engines goin' by tootin' their whistles. Ah used to say all the time that Ah was goin' one of them trains one of these days. Sho nough, Ah got to ridin' one of them. Ah rode the bootches but Ah rode. Went to Memphis and way south Mississippi, whar the women used to meet the riverbout mens. As Ah recollects, them wimmen aint never tried to give me no lemon.thats what you calls playin' a funny trick on you to git yo' money. They treated me right, cause jest lak Ah says, mah liquor makes me do funny things. Then agin, Ah always had mah. gat (pistol) which would shoot. All Ah had to do was pulled the trigger, thats all. Them prutty high yallar wimmens used to look At mah gat all the time and says, 'daddy, is you goin' kill me?' Ah says, baby, Ah'll kill you and yo' mammy, the woman that births you. They'd git jest as scared! Man, jest lak Ah'm tellin'you, them wimmens wouldn't mess wid me. Ah used to git plenty money. Work? Wasn't that work? You aint never been no pimp, Ah see that? If you think keepin' up wid three and four wimmens aint no work boy you is got plenty to leran.
"Ah used to sing all of 'um a song that goes lak this!
Mamma, baby, slick back the quilt
Ah says mamma, baby, slick back the quilt
And move yo'self as thou wilt
Ah says, mamma, baby, slick back the quilt
Black gal, move yo'self as thou wilt.
"And boy, Ah had to hold on. Them gals in Mississippi, used to move like fast train out er Saint Looie, yea sir. You is lookin' at man who moved wid 'em, too.
"But Ah aint never finished tellin' you how Ah got r'ligion. Psck. You know Ah done plum fo'got. (Which wasn't unexpected, we had reached the barroom, a dilapidated"joint" on the conner of Galvez and Poydras) Hyar is the place. Lets go inside. And don't be buyin' no drinks for them people inside. The last gentman Ah brought hyar treated all them peple inside. B'fore Ah could git mah hand on the half pint them wimmens had it. Thats another thing. B'fore you go in Ah want to tell you not to pay any mind to Black Pearl. That gal can lie lak nobody's bisness. Aint never told the truth in her life. Cose, A man's got to be happy, so Ah got to put up wid her. But she's the lyin'est woman you ever laid eyes on. You'll see. (This looked like a warning, the kind that leads you to beleive that something would be pulled on the old man)
"How do you lak this place? (The place was smoky; a music box was playing slow blue tunes, and several women were shaking their posterior ina vain attempt to keep in time with the music. There were only five men in the place; some of them were looking at the show while others were drinking at the bar, paying no attention to it.) Its all right aint it? Ah knew you'd lak it. (Before we could seat ourselves Black Pearl was at our table. Her ruffled blue dress was mix switching from side to side; her white teeth were consiciiously showing out of red lips. Her kinky hair seemed to have been disturbed by a hot iron.) There you is Pearl. Let us alone. (Moses was very displeased because of Pearl's presence) Its gittin' so a man can't come into this place less he's crowded with you. (And Pearl resented this) Don't call me no bastard, Pearl."
But, Pearl wasn't paying him no mind; she went on calling Moses name, "Yeah, dig me, you old bastard. Dig me. You got company wid you and you want er be cute, eh?" Pearl was rather young to be "breaking down" but she was. Pearl is only about twenty-nine years old. She reiterated! "Dig me. But what you goin' to do when you git yo' check. What you goin' do?" Moses couldn't answere this; he felt like moving out of the place. He wouldn' say, but we thought This Pearl was too young to try "whupping." Poor old Moses was so embarrished that he couldn't sit down straight. "Give me a nickel so Ah can play some music," he said. Afterwhich Pearl chided! "Yeah, give him a nickel and let him play some mucie." With that she was off. Moses ordered two nickel whiskies and drank both of them. "Git me a half pint wine," he begged. That was finished very quickly, and Moses wiped his beard very carefully. He wouldn't do much talking; Moses wanted to think, to think about where Peral had gone and if she was coming back. "Thats a fool, thats what Ah calls a fool. You see when a woman acts lak that Ah got a mind to knock her damn head off. Yeah, Ah know Ah had a chance to do it. That slipped mah mind, Ah plum fo'got. Man is Ah mad?"
Moses ordered another whiskey. A fellow came over to the table and told him that Pearl said she would be back and she wasn't coming with out anything. Moses surmised again, but not about his philosophy. "Does you reckon that that gal got any sense?" He timidly asked, his voice whimpering and almost falling to pieces. And old man Moses was getting drunk. It may have been a convenient drunk, because Moses said, "Take me home and don't let anybody harm me." He stumbled and leaned to the side when he first attempted to move, drawing the attention of several persons who casted a dubious eye at us. One woman said very outspokenly, "Look, that young boy done made old man Moses drunk." But our conscience was not whipped because we knew that Moses had one objective, and that was to get out of this place.
We-helped Moses out of place and along the street. The hisses we received were uncountable. Neatly everybody charged us with "makin' old man Moses drunk." He wouldn't talk, just held his head down, droopingly. Finally, we got back to the spot where Moses was discovered. We very cautiously eat him on the steps, and tried to talk with him. Moses wouldn' say a mumbling word. Shortly, he was looking around, surveying everybody and everything. He peeped at us through one eye, and whispered, "Is she hyar?" When he heard the answer Moses was sober again. He wanted to talk again. "Man, that second drink got me, nearly knocked me out. Ah don't know what made so drunk. Must er been sumpin' Ah ate. No indeed. It wasn'y nothin' Ah hyared. No indeed! Let me tell you sumpin' son, Ah aint scared of a bastard or bitch born in this world, not a one. There aint nothin' to scare Moses Alexander. Ah done been through thick and thin. Ah done been through a bell of fire. Thats me, Moses Alexander. (A woman who resembled Black Pearl was coming up the street, and Moses Alexander stopped talking again. Whe he was positive the woman wasn't Pearl, he commenced rolling off words) See a man lak me? A man lak me will stand up and fight till he's dead dead. Yeah, twice dead!
"Well, you see Ah'm a christian and then Ah'm not. The scripture says a man is what he confesses to be. If you don't repent you aint goin' to hebbin. Sho? Ah want to go to hebbin. Aint Ah human? Ah sho don't want to go to hell. Cose, a man can go whar he pleases. All he's got to do is make it up in his mind. But Ah never makes that up in mah mind, Facts is, Ah never plains nothing. Ah lets the things happens as they wills. A man has to change in his hart; he is suppose to be qualified to git to hebbin. This runnin' to church, prayln' and then comin' out messin' er round aint no kind of way to git to hebbin. Ah knows that!' Jest tryin' to tell a heap of people.
"You know son, the Lawd aint goin' to let no man be fooled. He's goin' to make ev'rything plain. The way shall be made so plain that, a fool can not mutter no excuse. You'll find that in the bible. If you don't understand He'll make clar. Ah knows that. You hyar people tackin' about the Bible. But them's the ones who knows not the Bible but ev' rybody's bisness. Me, Ah don't mess up in this and that. Ah aint got nothin' to do with that. Ev'ry tub got to sit on its own bottom, and if its bottom aint no good that's the Lawd's bisness, not mie, not yo's. That Ah recollects. Does you? Ah might hot be no christian lak the preachers say, but Ah can make it up the Highway. Oh yeah! Thats the way Ah plains to mahself. If Ah was goin' to be hung tomorrow Ah would say it jest lak that. They would say, well, that man plians it the best way he knows how."
Now, all of the pride that was about old man Moses was leaving him; some fellow interupted our conversation to say that black Pearl said that Moses wanted to be cute because he had one of them "high caflutin' friends of his wid him," but that "she was goin' to show him." Yes, old man Moses was a different man now. He need sympathy. His voice broke like a tired woman; he could hardly talk. The fellow admitted that Moses was a good man; that he would fight women or anybody else, but that black Pearl was the only one who would have anything to do with him when he, had money to pay for what he wanted. And so, "What can you do when you is whupped?!' Moses pitifully asked, suggesting, "Mister, you better go, b'cause if Pearl comes and finds you hyar she is goin' to beat mah black ass." However, he managed to admit, but hurriedly, "Sho, Ah got religion."
