Athens, Georgia
354 W. Broad St.
W.P. Hopson (Negro)
Miss Grace McCune, writer
Mrs. Sarah H. Hall, reviser
COFFINS AND CASKETS
Walking through a Negro business section, I came across a four-room frame building, pained dark brown and trimmed in yellow. A narrow porch extending across the front of the structure supported a sign on which tall letters read:
"PAUL W. HARDY
FUNERAL HOME." 
A car standing in the small driveway gave evidence that someone was in the place. The door was standing open, so, seeing no bell, I rapped on the screen. 
"Come in," someone called. I opened the screen and entered a neat little office. A slender Negro man was busy at a desk that filled one end of the room. He cane to his feet at once when he saw me. "Excuse me," he apologized. "I thought it was one of the boys that just went out. Won't you have a seat?" 
"Are you the proprietor of this place?" I asked.
"Yes, mam, I am Paul W. Hardy. Is there anything that I can do for you?" 
I explained the purpose of my visit. He questioned me carefully as to why I wanted his story and what use would be made of it. Being satisfied at last, he said, "Well, I will be glad to help you all that I can, and you are welcome to use my name. 
"I started in this business in August of 1912* Before then I was in the shoe business for 15 years, and I guess I would still be making shoes, but I was too short-sighted. I couldn't see that the machinery for making shoes was slowly but surely pushing me out of business.
"I started in to learn the shoe business when I was quite small just started at the beginning, and as I learned I came right on up and I was making a success of my business. I had all that I could do. Do you know that seventy-five percent of my customers were white folks? They have always been my friends. 
"Of course, the salesmen came to my shop time after time trying to sell me the new machines to make shoes, but I just thought everyone would still want their handmade shoes. I was just too shortsighted to see that the machines would soon put me out of business. 
"While I was in the shoe business, I was also connected with the plumber business. Now, I never did any of that kind of work. Just had an interest in the business, but I really made good at both lines of business and it didn't cost so mush to live then as it does now.
"In 1912 I went to work in the undertaking business. I was working for a firm of white undertakers here, handling their colored trade." Paul laughed and said, "It was so different then. You didn't have to go to school, or even have a license from the State Board of Embalmers to be an undertaker. If you could satisfy your customers that was that was required of you. 
"We had no such things as funeral homes and none of the modern equipment that we now have. Our equipment was just about as far behind the times now, as those old horse-drawn vehicles are behind the very modem motor cars. 
"All of the work was done in the homes, and I just wonder what the people would have done back in those days had we even suggested bringing the bodies to our places to fix them. I guess we would have been pitched out on our heads.
"I was licensed by the State Board of Embalmers in 1916. I was able to stand the required examination from my experience in the four years I had done this kind of work and I have continued along since that time, making very good progress. I really love my work."
"Tell me about your work and the things needed in your stockrooms," I asked, in the hope that ha would tell me some of his experiences. 
"All that has changed too." Ha laughed. "Did you want to know all about that too?" "I surely do," I replied* "even to the clothes, caskets, and the means of moving the bodies. In fact, I would like to know anything you might tell me about your experiences as an undertaker." 
Paul grinned, as he said, "Walt a minute, do you realize that we didn't even have caskets when I started out?" 
"Well, what did you use?" I asked, "or rather what did you call them?" 
"Now that's better," he replied, "for we used the plain old coffins. They were not made even like a cheap casket now. Of course, you know rich folks could have much better ones, and when I started in business they were gradually improving. My firm used the old coffins for years. 
"They ware made in what we will call a kite shape. You know how a kite is made, wide at the top or head and very narrow at the foot. As for shrouds, they used their own clothes, but If they didn't have anything suitable to clothe the remains with, then we used just a plain burial robe. 
"Those old robes are used sometimes now, but very seldom, and they are made up much better than the first ones were. Even at that, we very often have occasions to use coffins but, like the robes, they have been improved. 
"Now as to moving the remains, by the time it became the custom to do that we were just beginning to use motor vehicles. Those first motor cars were sights. They were open. No one then would have thought of using a closed car. 
"We used baskets for the remains, but we would just sit those baskets across the back of the old open cars. Can you imagine what the people would say now. If we were to go after a body that way? It would be awful. And too, it is against the law now; you have to use a closed car, such as a hearse or ambulance. 
"That was also the way we delivered coffins, just sit then across the back of our cars." 
"What about the ambulance?" I asked. 
"Didn't have any," he answered.
"Well, what did you use?" I inquired. 
"Just carried them the best way we could. Usually on mattresses in wagons or carriages," he reluctantly admitted. "The first ambulance that I remember was an old horse-drawn covered vehicle that was first used here by some white undertakers. It was called on all occasions where ambulance service was needed, but I guess it was a hard ride, especially for anyone that was hurt or sick. 
"It is really wonderful when we look back to see how far we have come in our work. From the very crudest of equipment, we now have the best, and what a help it it for the undertakers, as well as for the bereaved families! 
"Then when we were called to take care of the remains, we did the work in the home. Many times some members of the family or their friends stayed in the room to see what we did. They wouldn't have let us move the remains for any consideration. It just wasn't done, and too we didn't have a place to do this work. 
"Now, we have our modem homes with operating rooms where everything is convenient to do the work efficiently and without any worry or inconvenience to the family. Such an improvement! We have our display rooms, where the caskets are placed for customers to choose them, also a display room of burial clothes. In the place of the old time robes, we have the very latest styles in dresses and suits for women and man of all ages and sizes. 
"Wa have our lay-out rooms where the remains can stay until the time of burial, and they are open at all times to the families and friends of the the deceased. Now, every modern funeral home has a chapel where the services may be held. In fact, we are now prepared to take complete charge of the remains from the time we are called until they are placed in the ground. 
"It means hard work at all hours. Whenever a call comes, we have to be ready, regardless of the hour, day or night, and maybe it is raining or cold, or It may be nice and warm, but whatever may be the weather conditions we answer the call. Sometimes it may be a friend, but it makes no difference. Friend or stranger we go, and try by every means in our power to lighten the burden as far as we can.
"There is one gap in my business record here. I worked here from 1912 to 1926, then I want to Atlanta and was employed there by a large undertaking establishment until 1929 when I returned to Athens. 
"In September of 1929 I opened and managed an undertaking home for an establishment of white undertakers here. I worked for them until the place was closed six years later. I then worked for a local colored undertaker for six months. 
"In May of 1936 I opened my place here and I have had pretty good success at it. I never exhumed but one body. That was a man that passed away in another town. His wife was very ill at the time and his family had his body brought here and buried, but when his wife got well she had him exhumed and carried back to the town he died in and buried there. I handled that for her. 
"Now, are there any special questions you would like to ask me? If so, I will try to answer them to the best of my ability, reserving the right not to answer any that I don't want to. Is that fair enough? You are free to ask any that you want to." 
I asked if his race had changed any of their customs and rites observed in connection with deaths, funerals, and internments since he began his career as an undertaker.
He smiled and said, "Now, that wasn't such a bad question. There is some difference, just as there is among your own folks. I don't know if you have heard of this custom or not, but I will tell you anyway.
"Back in years gone by, it was the custom to hold the remains out as long as possible so that there might be time to get the news to all the relatives and friends. It was not so easy to do that then as it is now. Still they had a nice way of spreading the news even at that. 
"A notice of the death was written, along with an invitation to attend the funeral services. This was given to a man who rode a horse from place to place, stopping to let the people read the notice and the invitation and sometimes it took days for him to got around. That was the old custom for both white and colored. 
"When my father died, I was just a very small child. He was a member of one of those volunteer fire companies. His company was called 'The Relief Fire Company. He was buried in one of the old coffins. It cost ten dollars. Even that was more than my mother had. She and my grandmother finally got up $5 and the fire company that he belonged to paid the balance. 
"There was an old man here " I forgot his name " that used to make coffins. He had a shop for that purpose. That was the way he made his living.
"If we go back to some of the church records, we find it's not so unusual now to hold the funeral services long after the body has been buried. That's in sections where they have church services only on a certain Sunday in the month. There are still many places where one pastor serves several churches and it sometimes takes him weeks to get around. If they can't hold the remains out until time for the pastor to get there, then they go ahead with the burying and have the funeral services on their regular church days. 
"My first hearse was drawn by horses, and even with that we had lots of trouble in getting over the roads. Just a few years back we had terrible roads, and it was nothing to start and have that hearse get mired up to the hubs in mud, and have to be pulled out. Before I was able to own a motor-drawn vehicle, when I had a large funeral I rented one from the white undertakers. My first motordrawn hearse was an old second-hand one that had to be completely overhauled. That learned me a lesson, and from then up to the present time I have bought nothing but new cars, as well as all other equipment, and all I have are modern and up-to-date." 
Paul laughed heartily, as he said, "I remember having a funeral one time down in Oglethorpe County. They were getting ready to go to the church for the services. The friends were all marching around the casket, looking at the remains. The deceased was named Sally. One old woman came by the casket, stopped, and leaned over It saying, 'Goodbye Sally, Ill meet you up yonder, but I'm going to stay here as long as I keeps my health and strength.
"People don't go in for mourning clothes now as much as they used to. Back then, every member of the family and especially the women folks thought they couldn't go to services if they weren't dressed in deep mourning and long veils. They use more white now than black and some of them just wear whatever clothes they may have without buying new ones for a funeral.
"Yes, times have changed. We used to have good societies among our people, and they always took charge of the services and marched in a body. They have just about all gone busted now, but still when you see a grave marked by a small piece of iron with three links of small chain on it, then you can know that the deceased was a member of the Order of Odd Fellows. 
"Do you know how the idea of the door badge or wreath originated? Its said that it was the custom in years gone by to hang clothes of the deceased on the door of a house in which there was a death, and from that it was gradually changed to a wreath of flowers. At first, these were just artificial, but now if we don't use fresh flowers they will sure holler about it." 
"Don't you think people are to some extent getting away from the old custom of opening the casket at the church?" I asked. 
"I think its better in some respects, for it has always looked so hard to me for the family to take their last view of their dead before such a crowd. I don't know so much about your people," and he laughed, "but among my people it sure helps the undertaker for if it's opened up everyone sees how nice the casket is and wants one just like it when they have a death in the family. Yes, mam, opening the casket sure helps business for the undertaker." 
"How are your collections?" I asked. "Do people pay promptly for your services?"
He laughed again and said, "Well, its best to price some of it out of them before you finish your work or rather before you bury the remains. Its really worse now than usual for so many people are out of work and many just cant get work and this story they have of I will pay you Saturday' don't always work. 
"I often have funerals here. I don't have a regular chapel, but I can move out all the caskets from my display room and lay-out room and arrange an improvised, chapel. 
"I get calls from out of town: Barrow, Clarke, Oconee, and Oglethorpe, and I have had a few calls from Greene County. Wherever the call comes from I answer it, and try to give a service that will please everyone.
"I have most of the work for the county and the Red Cross. They call me and I go and get the remains. Then I try to locate some of their people that I can turn the body over to and let them pay the burial expenses, but if they wont accept it " and I have had that to happen " then I go ahead and bury the body and the county or Red Cross, whichever one it was that turned the body over to me, will pay me. I get most all of the Negro prisoners that die, as well as the Negroes that live at the poorhouse."
"Do they put the folks away very nice?" I asked.
"No, mam," he replied, "they use the very cheap coffins with just a little padding in the bottom of them. At least, that is what they use for Negroes, and we really make nothing out of it. Its just a charity to bury them. I do think they do a little better for the white folks, but of course I dont handle any of them. 
"Now is there anything else you would like to hear? I think I have told you all that I know." The tone of his voice, although very courteous, implied dismissal.
As I thanked him for his kindness in giving me so much of his time and for the information, he said, "I am very happy to have been able to tell you and I only hope it will be of some help to you."
As I went out the door the telephone on his desk rang. I heard him tell someone that he was about ready to come for supper and that he would be sure and bring the pork chops and lemons. 
Coffins and Caskets Ga. Very Good
Negro undertaker - proprietor of modern shop - differences in old and new methods - education - shoemaker for 15 yrs. - undertakers helper - progress in work - charity work - collections
Names not changed
