Morris Ressley
Collington Island, N. C.
December 9, 1938
W.O.S.
William O. Saunders
"WHERE TOIME IS KOIND"

The shack in which he lived had once been a little houseboat;
just a little flat bottom scow sixteen feet long by ten feet wide,
with a house on it ten feet long, leaving three feet of the decking
of the scow exposed at either end. It was his elder brother's 
home for some years. His brother, a man of simple wants, had eked
out a living by fishing and hunting in the waters of Hoenoke and Currituck Sounds. 
Occasionally he furnished his services as a guide
to fishing parties. His income was ample to keep him in tobacco,
flour, sugar, coffee, the few staples he required, and provide him
with an occasional pair of fisherman's boots, yarn socks, etc.

And then a nor'easter that blew for days in the bay of Chickahawk 
in which he had anchored cast the little houseboat high on 
the marshes of Carlyle Island. When the wind lulled and the waters
subsided old men like Padgett came out to survey the wreck of his
abode. The little houseboat layed due east and west across the dirt 
road that skirted the bay near the northeast extremity of the island. Not a bad 
location for a lone widower who subsisted by fishing, hunting, and guide service.

The old man looked up the owner of the property on which the cabined scow had 
drifted, obtained permission to let the scow
remain there. And then the old man's thoughts turned to a young widow whom he had 
known on the isle of Ocracoke. He looked her up, courted her, married her and 
brought her to his new <text not clear>. But first he had added another room to the 
houseboat.

His bride seemed but a child mentally and hardly more than a child in years.
Twice married before, the first time when she was only fourteen, she had two 
children by her former husbands and these she brought with her to the new home.

Nolly Padgett, brother of Ike was getting old; he had been married three times and 
the last of his wives was dead; his children had grown up and married and made 
homes of their own. Holly came to visit his brother, looked upon the child wife 
and liked her, looked over the shack and decided another room could be added on 
the other end at little expense. He obtained some lumber and nails, built the new 
addition himself, and came to live with his brother.

Old man Ike died in the spring of 1937.

"His widow wanted to stay on with me." said Nolly gloomily, "but that would have 
brought on right smart talk. She cried and cut up when her family took her away."

But within three months Nolly had taken his brother's widow in matrimony. "It was 
my brother's dying wish," said Nolly: "The truth is -- and there ain't no way of 
fooling God up yonder who knows everything we're doing -- I loved her and she 
loved me before my brother died. My brother wasn't no count for a year before he 
took and died; he couldn't do nothin' for her. I could giver her what she wanted. 
I think my brother knew all the time what was going on, and I think he was glad 
because he loved her and it hurt him to see her suffer."

"But what are you going to so when you become no 'count?" the interviewer asked him.

"I ain't crossing no bridges until I get to 'em," replied the old man. She's happy 
now and she's tamed down a lot as she's got older; and she don't have to have the 
lovin' she used to have."

"But isn't it risky business for an old man to marry a young girl?" the 
interviewer persisted.

"Now I'll tell you," said the old man; "An old man should never marry anthing but 
a young woman. When a man begins to get along in years he's a grinder; now if he 
marries a grinder there ain't much satisfaction for wither of 'em; but if he 
marries a self-starter its easy to get a spark."

Mrs. Padgett and the children were away from home at the time of the interview. 
The house was badly in disorder. Dirty dishes were piked on the kitchen table, 
children's clothes were scattered over the living room floor, a plate of fish 
bones from which the cat had eaten sat in the entry between the living room and kitchen.

There was a doorway but no door between the living room and the adjoining bedroom. 
The bedroom contained a double bed with a partition of rough corrugated board 
extending from the foot of it to the ceiling. the obvious purpose of which was to 
shield it from the view of the child occupants who slept on cots in the end of the 
room. Here was no privacy. The bed covering had a grayish, dingy look. The family 
washing was done by boiling clothes in an iron pot in the yard and washed in a 
small tub that, when not in use, was shoved under the house. There was hardly room 
in the little kitchen for an ironing board. the little cast iron ship'u stove they 
cooked on looked like a toy stove.

The premises generally were untidy. Two scrawny <text not clear> grew by the front door 
stoop. A garden of collards and shallots seemed to be thriving in the black marsh 
soil near the house. In a pan improvised by hanging several thicknesses of a 
discarded fish net from four stakes, a half dozen <text not clear> chickens pined.

"Do you raise these <text not clear> for sport?" the interviewer asked.

"No, don't exactly know how we come by 'em. They ain't nothin' on 'em to eat if we 
killed 'em, and if we turned 'em out they'd never come back alive. Somehow we just 
keep 'em. Still, I ain't one for wantin' to keep anything peened up. Maybe I'll 
sell 'em some say if somebody comes along and wants 'em.

"Where is Mrs. Padgett?" the interviewer asked.
"She's gone to the store in the woods up there to get some letters fired up. There 
was a woman and her husband from Chicago stopped here a year or two ago and took a 
fancy to her and the children, and they have been sending them presents ever 
since. She got a letter from 'em t'other day asking her what the children wanted 
for Christmas, and she's been so excited ever since that she can't rest until she 
gets a letter fixed up to send off to Chicago."

"Do you see many automobiles from other states here on the island?" the interviewer asked.

"Lots of 'em," the old man replied. "They seem to get turned around when they 
leave the paved road over on the beach and when they see a road leading this way 
they just follow that road until they get over that bridge you see there and hit 
this island. Then they stop here to ask where they're at. I have a lot of fun with 'em."

"A city feller with a big, shiny automobile drives up, blown his horn and I come 
out. He wants to know where this road goes! I sez to him, sez I, I've been livin' 
here for a long time and it ain't gone nowhere yet.

"And then he wants to know if this road will take him to Kitty Hawk?"

"And I say it might take you there if it moved, but it ain't been in a notion to move since I've known it."

"Well, after havin' my fun with 'em like that for a few minutes I tell 'em where 
they got in wrong and help 'em get going again. They come in here all hours of the 
night; I've had them wake me up honking their horns way after midnight. They think 
they have come to the jumping off place shore nuff. They're mighty grateful when I 
quit kiddin' 'em and tell 'em what they want to know. Sometimes they give me a 
piece of money, a drink of liquor or a cigar. They used to just about keep my wife 
in cigarettes until I broke her of smokin'."

"Does your wife use tobacco in any form any more?" the interviewer asked.

"Yea, I told her she could dip snuff. She likes liquor too, but I won't have none 
of that. Used to a lot of folks would drop in at night and bring liquor and play 
the phonograph until two o'clock in the morning. I got tired of that sort of 
foolishness and put my foot down on it. We've had it pretty quiet here ever since."

The wind had shifted and blew chill over the bay.

The old man got up and closed the door of the shack, filled his pipe from a fruit 
jat half full of plug cut tobacco and reflected upon life in general.

"I ain't been feeling a bit well for the past week," he said. "I work on the WPA 
and I stopped at a store and bought a can of sausage one day last week. I noticed 
they were hard ad dry when I opened the can, but I was hungry and ate 'em. I came 
home that evenin' with pains in my stomach and thought I was going to die. Took a 
big dose of Black Draught and went to bed and I 'm still living, but I've been s 
mighty sick man. '<text not clear>' I reckon."

"Did you notice the can that the sausage came in? Did the top bulge and a little 
gas escape from it when you opened it?"

"Come to think of it, the top of that can was bulged out and it was sort of black 
instead of brassy inside when I opened it." Nolly is sixty-five years old and has 
lived much out of tinned cans in his day, but had never learned to identify a 
tinned can laden with possibilities of <text not clear> poison, by its bulging top.

"Livin' is easy around here. She (he always referred to his wife as she) and the 
children fished off the bridge yesterday evenin' and caught 'leven as pretty bass 
as you'd want to see. I've got a set there that I fish when the ducks and geese 
are flying around. There's lots of squirrels on the island too. I've got a good 
squirrel dog."

"Our garden usually does right well, but the tide come up over it this spring and 
almost drowned out the collards. Didn't hurt the shallots though. Shallots can 
stand anything; all you got to do is stick a few of 'em down in the ground and the 
place will be run over with them before you know it. And they're the making of a 
fish stew. Put a rock fish in a pan with a little water, flour, salt, and pepper 
and a few shallots, and lay a few slices of salt port on it and put it in the 
oven, and you've got somethin' to make your hair curl."

The old man went over to the little sheet iron heater that furnished the only heat 
for the three room shack in winter, lifted the lid and emptied the ashes from his pipe.
"Let's have a little music," he said.
Going over to a cabinet phonograph that stood in a corner, he fished out a double 
faced record, placed it on the disc, would up the spring meter and set the needle.
"This is her favorite piece," he said, referring to his wife. "She played it over 
and over again when my brother died. The title of the piece was "We Can't Be 
Darlings Any More," a Montgomery Ward record played by Heiner's Mountaineers.
As the last wail of the plaintive air ended, the old man arose with moist eyes and 
changed the record to the other side. "This is a right purty piece too," he said.

The machine galloped off with "Tell Mother I'll Be There," sung by the same 
mountaineers in the accompanient of fiddle, banjo, guitar and mouth harp.

"I paid $175 for that phonograph when times were better," he said. "Lately most of 
my records were worn out, so I sent off to Montgomery Ward and got twenty new 
records this summer."

As the interviewer was about to leave, he looked up the road and saw the wife 
coming with two children, a boy and a girl trailing behind her. She walked with a 
brisk step. She was a smallish woman, in her early twenties. She wore a <text not clear> print 
dress that fairly revealed the curves of her figure.

The children were a bit shy, but the woman came up to her husband, leaned against 
him affectionately and looked the interviewer over with laughing, friendly eyes.
Noting a five or six days growth of stubble on her old man's face, the interviewer 
asked Mrs. Padgett why she didn't make him shave?

"Lor' man, if oi did oi'd have to shave him moiself," she replied, speaking with 
the quaint brogue peculiar to many natives of the region.
"How often do you shave him?" the interviewer asked.
"Oi don't exactly know; let him go some toimes fer eight or noine days. Don't want 
him to look purty much of the toime, because oi don't want him to git to 
ballywhackin' around the neighborhood," she said, looking up into his grizzled 
face with a mischievous twinkle that carried with it a look of pride in the 
ownership of a spouse who was old enough to be her grandfather.
The Padgetts have no quarrel with the world; self-pity is utterly foreign to them; 
used to hardships and simple living, they are not worried about owning things.
"Better stay and have dinner with us," Mrs. Padgett said, as the interviewer moved 
to depart; "Oi ain't had time to cook anything today, but we got a mess of loima 
beans in the house an hit won't take no toime to scare up somethin' t'eat if you 
all kin put with our keind of livin'."
