GREEK STUDY NORTH CAROLINA
From W. O. Saunders
Greeks in Elizabeth City, N. C.
Personal Mention
George C. Wooler, age 51; prop.; came to this country about 1912 from Gralista, Greece; naturalized about 1928; belongs to Greek Orthodox Church; married to Arestea G. Manos Wooler, age 35; came to this country in 1915 from Gralista, Greece; naturalized in 1931; no children; belongs to Greek Orthodox Church.
Bill S. Manos, age 38; waiter; came to this country in 1915 from Gralista, Greece; not naturalized; belongs to Greek Orthodox Church; unmarried.
Staurola Manos, female; age 67; does not work, came to this country in 1915 from Gralista, Greece; not naturalized; belongs to Greek Orthodox Church; speaks very little English.
Charles Manos, age 32; prop.; came to this country in 1915 from Gralista, Greece; will soon get naturalization papers; belongs to Greek Orthodox Church; unmarried.
John Kambis, Kambitsis real name; partner; age 47; married French girl whom he met while in the Army in France.
Wife, who joined him in America, leaving their three children, all girls, in the old country, is now in Greece to bring them to America. Girls speak and write Greek, French and English. Kambis has been in this country 30 years; naturalized 1920; was in the Army during the World War; belongs to Greek Orthodox Church; came from Cephalonia, Greece. Jerry Kambis, real name Kambitsis; age 45; prop; came to this country in 1920 from Cephalonia, Greece; not naturalized lost first papers; did belong to Greek Orthodox Church but now belongs to Presbyterian Church; married American girl; no children.
Nick Tawfas, age 23 or 24; prop.; came to this country in 1915; has first naturalization papers; belongs to First Christian Church; married an American girl; has 1 boy.
Gus Giftiamkis, age 48, prop.; came to this country in 1920; got first naturalization papers and lost them; belongs to First Christian Church; unmarried. George P. Stamatis, age 55; prop.; came to this country in 1907; got first naturalization papers but lost them, going to try to get more; belongs to First Christian Church; unmarried.
Angelo Mandos, age 32, chef at Central Cafe; not naturalized; no religious affiliation; unmarried. Christ Paulos, age 29; assistant chef at Central Cafe; not naturalized; no religious affiliation; plans to marry American girl; also plans to get naturalization papers.
George Sfetsos, age 45; partner in Central Cafe; came to this country from near Athens, Greece; has naturalization papers; married to American wife; has two children.
Gus Constantine Geraris, age 31; head prop, in Fort Raleigh Grill; naturalized; no religious affiliation; unmarried.
Nicholas Harry Paulos, age 41; head prop. in Central Cafe; came to this country from Cephalonia in 1916; naturalized; no religious affiliation; married American girl of German-American descent; has 6 children.
