
Rose Shepherd
March 20, 1936
Interview # 35.
II - HISTORICAL (Jacksonville during the War)
PERSONAL INTERVIEW
Mrs. Phena (Hudnall) Love,
216 West Miami Road,
South Jacksonville,
Florida.
Mrs. Love's family, the Hudnall's, were early settlers on the South side of the St. Johns River, their plantation embracing <text not clear> is now "Locarno."
Mrs. Love says: "In the early Spring of 1862, when rumors <text not clear>ached Jacksonville that federal occupation was imminent, many of the <text not clear>aves ran away and joined forces with the union soldiers. My father, <text not clear>ticipating further desertions, took all of the slaves - with the execution of a few house servants - with wagons, farming implements and ether equipment to Middleburg, intending to return later for the family. However, Federal troops moved into the territory between Middleburg and Jacksonville in large numbers, cutting off his return, so that he was obliged to stay on in the Middleburg section until the close of the War.
"My married sister, Mrs. Jack Shad, whose husband, an officer in the Confederate Army, had just been killed, was living on what is called the Stephenson's place further down the River. My mother, Mrs. Eliza Hudnall, insisted that she come stay with us.
"At that time I was about six years of age. I had three older members, sister three years younger than I, and the baby was a boy <text not clear>rly two.
"My widowed sister, Mrs. Shad, with three small children, moved <text not clear> our home. Later the other servants deserted, and I remember what a task it was for my mother and Mrs. Shad to try to handle the housework and cooking for such a large family of young children - the washing was particularly hard for them. They allowed the soiled linen to pile up for several weeks, hoping to be able to get negro servants to replace those who ran away, but when they found this was impossible, they did this work themselves, for the first time in their lives.
"On the morning of March 12, 1862, the Federal gun-boats which had crossed St. Johns Bar the day before and anchored in the River, steamed up to Jacksonville.
"My mother stood on the Piazza with field glasses, looking at the ships in the harbor. Supplies of food and necessities were running short, and she said: "I am going to cook some chickens, make cakes, pies, and row out to those ships and exchange the food I have for things I have not."
"She fried chickens, baked the cakes and pies, put up a supply of jellies and Jams, and with the baby in her arms and my young brother of about twelve, set off in the row-boat with a large piece of white cloth raised on a standard in the bow, to show that she was on a friendly mission. She rowed the boat, to the "Maheda" one of the transports DuPont's squadron. The officers took their field glasses, viewing with much concern the approach of this small boat containing a woman with a baby and a young boy gradually approaching the fleet. They assisted her to land, and once on deck, she said: "I am come on a Mission of peace. I would like to exchange the food I have brought with me - fried chicken, eggs, milk, cakes, pies, jellies, and jams, necessities which I am <text not clear>. The officers were delighted, and they took all of her offerings and gave her in return, flour, salt, coffee, tea, sugar - and noticing that my small brother was bare-footed, they fitted him with a pair of brogans, at which he was delighted.
"This was the fore-runner of other trips. She was always kindly received, the officers seemingly glad to avail themselves of Southern home cooking," and she always brought back plentiful supplies of articles of food it was impossible to secure, and especially, did she keep the salt supply replenished - which was particularly necessary, and I may say that all during the remainder of the War, ours was the only plantation which had a surplus to divide with the neighbors.
"Using the brogans given my brother as a pattern, my mother learned to make shoes. She had the heavy leather soles cut to measurement, punched, holes for the pegs, and fast had on the tops of heavy cloth other material.
"These same officers later on, visited the plantation and <text not clear>sming the straightened circumstances to which my mother had been reduced, they moved her with her family of children and grand-children m<text not clear>her furniture and other personal belongings to a big house on Forsyth St., where they took their meals with her, paying her generously, and in this way she was able to car a for us."
NOTE: Mrs. Love is not able to talk long at a time, and has made another appointment for Tuesday, March 24th, at 2 p. m. for another interview) R.K.S.

Rose Shepherd
March 24, 1936.
Interview #37
II-HISTORICAL (Early Jacksonville)
PERSONAL INTERVIEW
Mrs. Phena Hudnall Love (No. 2)
216 West Miami Road,
South Jacksonville, Florida.
"My father was directly descended from Elias story, who was a passenger on the "Mayflower" and whose name is engraved on the "Faith Monument" at Plymouth Rock, Massachusetts, as being a member of the passenger list.
My grand-father, Ezekiel Hudnall, was the owner of three sailing vessels, which plied between the United States and Liverpool - he was the Master of one - engaged in handling hard woods. In the year, 1811, he moved with his family t St. Mary's Georgia, an exclusive settlement at that time, and here my father was born two years later. Shortly, an Indian uprising took place, and the Indians became so violent, grand-father abandoned the large new home he had built there, and <text not clear> his family to St. Augustine, placing his family under the prospection the Spanish Government. When Florida was ceded to the United States from Spain, my grand-father took out his naturalization papers, becoming an American citizen in 1821. He established his ex claim for eleven Land Patents in the State of Florida, for which he qualified, among these <text not clear>questions were 275 acres in East Jacksonville, 200 acres at Jacksonville Beach on the Ocean front, and a large acreage on the St. Johns River above Palatka. These patents are on record at the Government <text not clear> inesville. (Grandfather died in St. Augustine in 1323).
"My mother's father, Ernest <text not clear> and his wife, Marie Helbert, game form Hamburg, Germany, in search of health, then to New York, in about 1829, from where they located in Baltimore, but the <text not clear> did not agree with my mother, and they came on to Florida in 1832. He brought letters of introduction to Judge John L. Doggett, where family still has this letter.
"In the meantime, one daughter, Matilda, married a professor of Fresh in a private school in Albany, N. Y., whose name was DaIissy and she remained in that City, but the rest of the family came on, and located at Mandarin, where my grand-father, Coeme, bought land. He had himself appointed Post-Master at Mandarin, where he also ran a General Store. It cost 25, at that time to send a letter by post.
"Florida moss on the old trees at Mandarin attracted my grand-father, and he conceived the idea of using it for upholstering purposes, <text not clear> large quantities with the help of his neighbors and negroes <text not clear> was cleaned and cured, it was placed in large pens to be shipper to various ports. He made a trip to New Orleans in 1834, and <text not clear> there contracted the yellow fever from which he died. He had gone on business in connection with the marketing of the moss, and my mother, who was in New York visiting my sister, Mrs. DeLissy, became ill and died a week or two previous to the death of my father.
Traveling then was a slow and tedious matter, and dangerous as well on account of the hostile Indians, and my father who had become. Fast friends with Judge Doggett, had taken the precaution to place his children legally under the guardianship of his trusted friend. Judge <text not clear>. He went to Mandarin and moved my mother who was about 12, and her little sister, Maria, who later became Mrs. Dr. Miles Murphy, and three brothers, Alfred, Henry and John, to Jacksonville.
"Alfred went to Kentucky, while Henry and John joined the <text not clear>rmy minole War, becoming members of the Band, one playing the flute and the other the piccolo.
"The old furniture in my grand-father's home, which had been brought from Europe, was also moved along with the other family belong<text not clear> to the home of Judge and Mrs. Doggett on East Forsyth-st., and <text not clear> my mother, Eliza coeme, grew to young woman<text not clear>. When my Uncle, Alfred Coeme, had married and established himself <text not clear> farm, at Danville, Kentucky, he came on here and took little Maria then about 12 years old back with him. He put her in a boarding school and later a special school where she prepared herself to be a teacher. She came to Milledgeville, Georgia, where she taught and later married Dr. Murphy, and became the mother of the two girls, later Mrs. Graves and Mrs. Cooley, of Jacksonville.
"Judge and Mrs. Doggett were the prime movers in the establishment of St. Johns Church, giving the ground on which it is built, and my mother at 14, assisted Mrs. Doggett in the activities of the women of the Church to accumulate funds for the first building.
"My mother met young Francis Shelton Hudnall, whom Judge Doggett considered a very fine young man, and they were married from his home in St. Johns Church in November, 1836.
"The day they were married, they moved into their own home in South Jacksonville, the house being built in the section now known as "Locarno" and there they lived and prospered until 1862 - during which period nine children were born.
"When the Federal gunboats anchored in the St. Johns River on March 12, 1862, and later my mother made her fateful trip to these boats under a flag of truce to obtain needed food for herself and children are my father had taken the slaves to prevent their whole sale decoration, to the plantation of our relatives. Dr. and Mrs. Murpey <text not clear>together with my older sister, Nellie, and their return was <text not clear>by the moving in of Federal land troops, my mother was at her <text not clear> and to provide for the family.
"The officers came and transferred my mother, her family, and my viewed sister. Mrs. Shad, and her three small children, to Mrs. Swart's property - two houses they had confiscated on East Forsyth- St between Laura and Hogan and there she started to cook for the officers of the fleet - there were between thirty and forty of these RANKEES - who paid her $3.00 per day each for their meals.

NELLIS RETURNS UNDER A FLAG OF TRUCE.
MY mother worried as-to the welfare, of my sister, Nellie, and towards the end of that period of the occupation of Jacksonville by the Federals, Capt. Frank Howard, who had married my widowed sister Mrs. Shad, are kept the "Suttlers' Store (Supplies) on Bay-st., and Lieut William White, a West Point man, a native of New Jersey, and who in the meantime had married my other sister, Virginia, in officer on the Warship "Mahaska" m the harbor/- offered to go under a flag of truce and effect Kellie's return. It was arranged with the Confederates to bring her, from Middleburg to the Federal lines, where she was transferred to her Federal escort and journeyed safely back to Jacksonville.
"Nellie was an ardent Rebel, and resented the marriage of her <text not clear>sider sisters to Yaknees - these marriages took place under Government supervision, as was required at that period, by the way. My mother <text not clear> a white house-maid to assist her with the great volume of work, and she had contracted typhoid fever and died a short time before Sister Nellie come back. My sister, Virginia, took this fever and was critical by will, when Nellie burst into the room und upbraided her for having <text not clear>a Yankee, saying - "I shall never speak to you again."
"Mrs. White died shortly afterwards and was buried with at half mast and full military honors, in the old cemetery on the south SIDE at Craig's Swamp," Afterwards when Evergreen Cemetery was laid out, <text not clear>the body moved there.
"At this period, everything was getting along marvously in the <text not clear>mother had those two large houses filled with the Federal officers paying her the $3.00 per day each for board and giving her their <text not clear> tickets, she investing the money in Jacksonville property.
The bought the land where the Graham building now stands, 168-ft. be<text not clear> at the Bisbee Building and coming on down to where the Cigar store <text not clear> is on Forsyth-st. On this site she later built the St. Johns Hotel.
ASSASSINATION OF LINCOLN.
"The Yankee officers took special delight in teasing my sister, Nellie - still a beligerant Rebel - and one morning when she came down is breakfast, Capt. Cole looked up from his breakfast, and said:
Lincoln has been assassinated." Nellie thought it a joke, to arouse her well-known repartee, and said pertly: "Well, what are you going TO do about it - fire guns and illuminate the City? The angry captain replied: "If you mean to rejoice at Lincoln's death, I shall not eat another bite in this house! The idea, that such a calamity could be made a jest!'
"Re marched angrily out of the door to find my mother, where he told her of Nellie's thoughtless remark, threw the money to her for what was due for his meals, and spread the news to the other officers of the back of consideration in a house they had befriended. My mother was a very dignified, poised, self-possessed woman, and although she begged the officers not to take the matter so seriously, that "Nellie we not much more than a child, and thought they were jesting, as usual," the house was soon emptied of them and their belongings.
"Or the corner where the Graham Building now stands at Forsyth and. LAURA-sts., there was a mess hall where the common soldiers were accommodated their tents ran through from Hogan to Main-st., and from Bay street to <text not clear>where also were negro soldiers.
A attachment of negro infantry came to our home about 11 o'clock, THE leader knocked at the front door, and told my mother they had come to arrest her and her daughter for rejoicing at Lincoln's death.
"At <text not clear> and Forsyth, where not stands the Columns Apartments, was the home of where the federal Quarter-Master General maintained his COL J.P.S. Anderson maintained <text not clear> Headquarters.
My mother made no remonstrance with the negroes but asked to be allowed to change dress and that of Nellie and get their hats. This permission was given. My mother took Nellie and ran out through the back yard which run from Forsyth to Bay-st., and was shaded with lovely old oaks, <text not clear> to the Quarter-Master General's Headquarters and ashed most politely <text not clear> see him. She was a small person, and very decisive. She was <text not clear> immediately, and said: "General, you sent colored officers to bring us to your office, and to avoid this humiliation, we have come ourselves to explain in this tense situation which has grown out of a supposed <text not clear> and ask you to save our home which the negroes are threatening to burn."
"The Quarter-Master General said: 'Mrs. Hudnall, I am satisfied with the explanation and am sure no offense was intended, and that your daughter is innocent of any insult to Capt. Cole. You shall have the full perception of my officers. I cannot understand his hasty actions, and you shall have a <text not clear>around your house, sufficient to protect you and your family.
"The Southern people heard about it, and said Mrs. Hudnall had turned Yankee."
"Seen <text not clear>harbor and the City of Jacksonville were <text not clear>ted by Federal forces, and the citizens who had refugeed to the interior of the State, and whose houses had been closed and deserted, returned with home.
"These friends and neighbors in many cases filled the rooms recently occupied by the Federal officers, and my mother's place became the <text not clear> for the southerners. Mrs. Swart also returned, and she paid her rent, for the two houses she had occupied by grace of the Yankees for Several years.
"In October, 1866, she moved into her new place, the "St. 'Johns Hotel" with her family after the War was over. The lumber and shingles for this building are all hand made. This is where I grew to young girlhood and for many years we had a fine business, from both home people and tourists who had begun to come in, traveling over the state of Florida, and people were pleased to have it known they had been guests of Mrs. Hudnall at the St. Johns Hotel, 46 west Forsyth-st.
THE PRISONERS FROM ANDERSONVILLE.
"My sister, Nellie, married Capt. Jesse Ward, Harbormaster, one, day <text not clear>re was a Government Transport came up the St. Johns River, and I well <text not clear> when the prisoners from Andersonville Prison were brought into Jacksonville. It was very warm weather, and they were dirty, tired and ragged their shoes off and their old trousers worn and ragged, most of them off to the knee.
"In our tremendous back yard, these poor men sprawled in the shade of the large oaks. The mesa hall a few feet away, which had been built with <text not clear> hoards and a thatched roof of palm leaves to shelter the colored <text not clear>, was their bivouac for the night. My mother felt so sorry at their pitiful plight that she cried, but went forward with a plan she had contrived to feed them. My mother called everyone in the house to make coffee and prepare food for these men, about a hundred of them. I was a small<text not clear> flying around with the olders, serving coffee in cups, <text not clear> glasses, <text not clear> out bread and meat. Then my other appealed <text not clear> citizens for clothing - shirts, pants, shoes, anything available to <text not clear> wretched bodies.
"That might they rested in the mess hall, and the next morning Capt. Jesse Ward, carried these men on his steamer. "The St. Mary's to <text not clear> Head, s.c where they could be exchanged and returned to their homes.
ICE BROUGHT IN SHIPS FROM MAINE.
In those days, wells dug in the yards served water for home use, and public wells were dug in the down town section. Our well was <text not clear> and had <text not clear> down the sides on which were placed, milk, butter <text not clear> to keep.
"In 1865, the first vessels of Drew., Hazeltne & Livingston, came into Jacksonville with cargoes of ice from rains, which was unloaded and placed in sawdust <text not clear> on the wharf.
Each day mother bought a 100-lb piece, for which she paid $1. 50. It was <text not clear>sawdust and kept in a tub covered with blankets, and during the day by chipping off pieces for cooling the drinking water and for other purposes. Later the price was reduced to $1.00, and finally to <text not clear> per 100-lbs. at which price it stayed for a long time, until manufactured <text not clear> into use.
<text not clear>on wood stoves, and had no gas or electricity. The houses were lighted with kerosene lamps."

Rose shepherd
August 25, 1986.
JACKSONVILLE - "Villa Alexandria"
Mrs. Phena Hudnall Love,
216 West Miami Road,
South Jacksonville, Florida.
"Mrs. Alexander Mitchell, (Martha Reed) was the sister of Harrison Reed, Post-War governor of Florida by appointment of a Republic U.S. President, and the widow of Alexander Mitchell, of Milwaukee, <text not clear> millionaire president of the Illinois Central Railway, and rated as one of the wealthiest men of the West.
"Mrs. Mitchell was a very beautiful woman, charitable in the <text not clear> of fine character, and not at all in accord with her brother, <text not clear> who was later impeached and removed from office. She re<text not clear> have anything to do with him and never mentioned his name. Ex-Gov Harrison Reed, died in a little old house at the foot of Flagler- Street in South Jacksonville).
"After the death of Mr. Mitchell, his widow came to Florida, went to California - she always traveled, in a private car and had a <text not clear>of people with her as guests. She lived in Santa Barbara and Los <text not clear> for a year and a half, trying to decide whether she wished to establish her home there or in Florida. At the end of that period she came to Jacksonville, stopping at the St. James Hotel, then (in the early 70's) <text not clear>ding hostelry, and arranged for the purchase of 125 acres of land on the banks of the St. Johns River on the South Side now near at St. Nicholas place which she called "Villa Alexandria."
"She had plans drawn in Milwaukee for a beautiful home here, and brought down architects, artisans, materials, and erected the mansion on the water's edge.
"Everything was on a very magnificent scale, and it was later <text not clear> with the most expensive and beautiful furnishings, period furniture from foreign lands, statuary, etc.
"The library was said to have been the finest south of Washington D.C., with original paintings on the walls by old masters, etchings, <text not clear> hundreds of old volumes, handsomely and expensively bound.
"The linen-room on the second floor was spacious and well <text not clear> equipped with open racks so that the air could pass through easily, <text not clear> large room adjoining for the use of the house-keeper.
"After Mrs. Mitchell's death, it fell to my lot to inventory her <text not clear> and the linen-room was especially interesting. There were dozens sets of matched linens for table use, all elaborately embroidered, <text not clear>with intricate drawn-work, all having her monogram and initials in embroidery, She kepts, two French women busy in Paris, who did <text not clear> but embroider her household end table linens, and paid them by the year for this work. Royalty never had anything to surpass her possessions in this respect. There were many sets that had never even been unwrapped.
"The draperies were all imported. The bed-rooms were all done <text not clear>inty colors, each equipped with a private bath. Mrs. Mitchell's bed-room was a duplicate of one of the early French Queens - in white <text not clear> The ceiling was white maple also, panelled with strips of old rose <text not clear>, the canopy and bed drapiers of the some imported material. One nature was a wide bay window overlooking the St. Johns River, which is particularly expansive and beautiful at this point, with curved seats built in, upholstered in the same material, and many lovely cushions. The rugs were all of the oriently imported variety.
"Her commodious dressing room led off from the bed-room, with a sufficient marble bathroom. There was also adjoining, a room floored and paneled with cedar, with closets and drawers, and ample boxes in which were our beautiful dresses and accessories. Mrs. Mitchell had been ill <text not clear> period before her death, and I found many dresses made by her <text not clear>French dress-maker on previous order, still in their original <text not clear> and had never been worn.
"The dining-room was octagon shaped, and the mahogany finishing <text not clear> paneled ceiling, the windows, doors, cabinets/etc, were installed at an estimated <text not clear> $50,000. The cabinets were filled with the finest of imported <text not clear>that money could buy. This large dining-room seated thirty. Fine <text not clear> graced the walls, and between the pictures we re silver lighting <text not clear>The floors throughout were of the finest hard-wood variety.
"Alexander and Mrs. Mitchell's only son was John Mitchell, who became a united states senator from winconsin. He had one son, David Mitchell, who made his home at Villa Alexandria, and married Kitty parrott, daughter of an official of the Florida East coast Railway.
"when Kitty Mitchell cams to make her home there, her suite was over all in pure white, with white furniture and all other furnishings.
"The master-bedroom occupied by David was twenty-four feet square, with great mirrors in the dressing room and accommodations for his hundreds suits of clothes. The private bath-room, attached had tiffany glass winters a bath-tub carved out of a solid block of/imported Pyrrean marble, the fittings mounted with ivory and silver. The large washstand also was of the same beautiful marble. There was a square bathing pool, with arrangements made for <text not clear>kish, needle, or shower baths, as desired, reading from this bath-room a medicine closet, completely stocked, a small drug-store in itself.
"The collections of books in the library were beyond description, us were the cabinets that held the beautiful pictures. One box which held pictures portrayed from Holy Script done on parchment - each_
<text not clear> one of the old masters - was priceless. The cabinets were everything strewn around, but I gathered up these belongings <text not clear>tly, dusted than off, and packed them properly numbered and tagged <text not clear>sofa cushions to try to protect them from the dust am improper.
"Kitty Mitchell is father, Mr. Parrott, sold the house to Harry Mason who strapped it of the beautiful furnishings and equipment and <text not clear> them away.
<text not clear>FUL GROUNDS:
"Mrs. Mitchell also brought landscape gardeners, who terraced grounds and made them a beautiful sight to behold. Flowers, shrubs, <text not clear>plants were brought from all over the world and set out at<text not clear>. There was a stone wall along the bank of the river which <text not clear>tirely covered with Cherokee Roses. The walks were terraced down <text not clear>beautiful boat-house. The upper floor of the boat-house was developed <text not clear>a ball-room with magnificent lounges for both men and women. had a buffet where refreshments, iced-drinks, imported liquors, etc., were <text not clear>. The dock at the landing was large enough and strong enough that <text not clear>steam-boats could land with their loads of invited guests to the <text not clear>affairs which took place there on frequent occasions. Everything has carried out on an extensive, but well appointed scale. The spacious <text not clear> and gardens were lighted with Japanese lanterns. The tables were <text not clear> with refreshments.
"When her annual Charity Bazaar took place, Huyler's and other <text not clear>manufacturers would ship down large quantities of candies and other <text not clear>as Contributions for sale, mostly for the benefit of St. Lukee Hospital, of which she was the chief benefactress. She gave thousands of dollars to this institution. At the end of the fiscal year, whatever amount was lacking to cover the operating expenses of the instution, she sent her check to cover. In addition, she supported a lot of people in Jacksonville and Duval County before the days of organized charity, and was a good example of the old adage, "Truly, her left hand knoweth not <text not clear>her right hand doeth."
"Mrs. Mitchell possessed most magnificent jewelry. One set <text not clear> in particular was of black pearls - ear-rings, necklace and - said to have belonged, to one of the Queens of Europe.
"All in all, the home contained in all probability the most capable and beautiful things that were every brought to Florida, and an inventory which I made for the Court, when the estate was settled, <text not clear>listings of in some instance articles that were almost price-<text not clear>
"Mrs. Mitchell is buried in the old St. Nicholas Cemetery here the South Side."
<text not clear>

