How He Learned English
by
Robert W. Holmes
There are only two Greeks in Davidson County, both residing in Thomasville, where they operate a small lunch room.
The older of the two, Dimitrios A. Kahahalios, was born in Karpenisi, Greece. He left home at the age of fourteen and went to work in a cafe in Constantinople. He married a Greek woman there but did not come to this country until he was twenty-eight, which was in 1914. He had an uncle in Orangeburg, S. C. from whom he heard he could make plenty of money in America.
Kahahalios landed in New York after an uneventful sea voyage which he discribed as: "I little seasick but I always eat." He worked in a cafe in New York City for about a year and a half. Instead of going out and having "bigga time" he studied English in his spare time, learning it word by word. He would pick up the salt and pepper shakers and pronounce the names, "salt", "peppa".
When he left New York he went to work for his uncle in Orangeburg, S. C. but stayed there only about a year. He then began to migrate; operated cafes in Columbia, S. C. two years; Florence, S. C. six months; Rockingham, N.C. and Sumter, S.C. two years; Greensboro, N. C. eight or ten years, and has been in Thomasville four years. He has nearly always been in partnership with another Greek but the partnerships do not always prove successful so he sells out and moves to another place. He has never worked anywhere except in cafes and restaurants.
Kahahalios cannot read Greek or English and is not a naturalized American citizen although he wouldvery much like to be, so he could bring his wife to America. He has never been back to Greece since he came here in 1914.
He belongs to the Greek society, Ahepa, and to the Moose lodge. He is a member of the Greek Orthodox church which he attends in Winston-Salem. He attends the Ahepa in Greensboro and the Moose in Thomasville. He rooms at a hotel in Thomasville. When asked if he had had any trouble making a living in this country he replied: "No troubles tall, everybody like dis countree."
Dionisios (Dennis) Plakas is associated with Kahahalios in the cafe business in Thomasville. The name of their business is "City Quick Lunch."
Plakas also came from Karpenisi, Greece. He sailed from Patras and landed in New York July 14, 1920, along with other Greeks, "Turkeys" and Syrians. He did not stay in New York but went at once to Petersburg, Va.
where he had cousins. He stayed in Petersburg two years where he "pick him up" English word by word. He then began to migrate. He lived twenty-eight months in Greensboro, thirty-two months in Wilmington, twenty-three months in Florence and some time (4 years) in Charlotte. He had as soon live in one place as another just so he is making money.
Plakas has a wife and two daughters in Karpenisi, Greece and has been back to see them five times, having crossed the ocean nine times, he proudly asserts. He was twenty-six years old when he made the first crossing. In Greece he was "alla time in the army" and he came to America because he heard he could make a good living here. He has always been in cafe work since he has been in this country.
He can read and write Greek and English but only has his first papers towards naturalization.
Plakas and Kahahalios could speak Turkish at one time but have now forgotten it. Plakas is a member of the Greek Orthodox Church. He came to Thomasville about two months ago to go into business with Kahahalios because he had known him previously.
These Greeks areverycongenial fellows andvery are willing to give information about themselves if it would help the country of their adoption.
