Orange County
Chapel Hill, N.C.
9/27/38
William O. Foster

Ed and Mary Jackson

Four miles south and east of Chapel Hill, N.C. is
the farm home of Ed Jackson and his wife, Mary Jackson.
They cultivate a small farm on shares on a dirt road
which <text not clear> US highway No. 15 a mile and a half
south of Chapel Hill and runs east through the
Mt. Carmel section

Ed Jackson is only forty-five years old but
his shoulders are beginning to stoop,
his black hair is turning gray, and three front teeth are missing. Ed says his grandfather
came to the United States from Wales. Since they came to America his people
have always been tenants, and the only time
he was free from this type of work was a period of six years
when he worked at a cotton mill in Carrboro. Even
while he was in the mill, his wife and the children
ran the farm. He and a friend shared the expense of commuting. He thought this mill work plan threw too
much work and responsibility on his wife and
he gave it up. He said with a
sigh, "I miss my pay-envelope but we
ain't going to starve on the farm. I guess I'll
stick to the farm."

Mary Jackson is only forty but she looks older
than her husbnd. She too is stooped and lines are
appearing in her face. She walks and talks as though
she is tired. On each of my visits to the home she had
just come in from her work, grading tobacco. Her
gray cotton dress was too old and faded to be called a
house dress and she called it, by way of apology,
"my work clothes". He folks were
"just Americans" and farmers always. The school she
attended as a girl only lasted four months in the year.
As she put it, "I began going
with Ed when I was fifteen and
four months later we ran off from school and got married.
I was too young to have any sense and hadn't had
much fun. I reckon I deserve to have a hard time."

She was one of nine children
and has five of her own. "Three of my young uns got
married when they wasn't much older than I
was. I still have two at home. Sally, there, is seventeen.
She stayed out of school three years after she finished the seventh
grade and vowed she wasn't going back
because she didn't like school." Sally
broke in on our talk, smiling at me with sparkling black,
eyes, and said, "But I'm at it again; I'm in the
eigth grade and I'm having a good time." Buddie
is fourteen and is in the seventh grade of the Chapel
Hill School.

"I do my house work and work on the farm like a
man," Mary said. In busy times, I'm up at daylight and by
dark I'm too sleepy to read. Rain is
some times a blessing. 'More rain, more rest' The children
do all they can after school, on Saturdays and in the summer,
but they don't get tired like me."

The Jacksons have the only log house in the
immediate neighborhood. In fact, tow log houses
three feet apart have been connected and the two give scant
space for the family. The house is close to the road and
the shade trees are at the barn. The yard is sandy and
there is not a flower or a shrub in sight. The house is
daubbed with white mud and is not ceiled, but
has been screened. Jackson
said there are five rooms, but Mary said there are
only four. I don't know how come there ain't five",
Jackson countered. I quickly
showed my admiration for the table which held
the children's school books and some magazines.
This table was about ten feet by two and a half
feet, fairly new and already of much better
materials than anything in the house. "I got that
from a friend in town", Mary explained. The front
room in which we were sitting is a bed room.
The double bed looks substantial with its plain, iron
frame. The floor made of rough pine is bare. The
windows boast of no ornament other than the faded,
torn shades. There were two dresses in the
room. The only decorations on the walls were three
enlarged pictures of relatives and the head of a deer. A double-barrelled
shot-gun hung on pegs in one corner.

The kitchen is back of the bed-room. Wood piled
half way to the low ceiling as used for fuel.
The table is covered with bright red oil-cloth.
A new, checkered linoleum covers half of the floor.
A hound dog and a collie
kept their eyes closed while I walked
over them on entering the kitchen.

A narrow hall leads to the two bed-rooms
in the other section of the house. Each of these rooms
has a double bed. Sally has the front room and
the other is claimed by Buddie.

This house has recently gotten electric lights.
The University of North Carolina runs its lines
only as far as this house. Other families east of
the Jacksons have signed up for lights but at
present the university is unable to serve them. An
electric iron is the only electric appliance,
but if they have a better crop
and better prices next year they will get either
a washing-machine or a "Kelvinator" like the
nearest neighbor has.

I took from the long steady table a copy of
The Southern Planter. Sally, seeing my interest,
handed me The Country Home and The Biblical
Recorder. They also take the Durham Morning Herald.
The only books in the house are two Bibles and some
school-books.

The Jacksons cultivate 3.6 acres of tobacco; and,
since they do not find it profitable to raise cotton,
tobacco is their money crop. The Tobacco crop last year
brought Jackson $450.00 but the excess of rain and
poor prices this year will cut the return on this
crop. Jackson furnishes a third of the fertilizer for the corn
and a fourth for the tobacco and recieves a like proportion of the yeild.
Nineteen acres of the corn will furnish the family
its meal and in large measure feed the two mules,
3 hogs and large flock of chickens. The overhead and
garden furnish this year ninety quarts of peaches,
forty quarts of berries, and sixty quarts of vegetables.
Jackson will sell this year vegetables for five
dollars and eggs for twenty dollars. He borrows
money from a friend at six percent interest in
securing his part of the fertilizer. The
land-owner has not been called on to furnish pantry
supplies or advance money for any purpose. He
has an old car, but cannot afford to run it.
His family rides to the Mt. Carmel
Baptist church with the neighbors; and when this is not
convenient, they walk to church. Fortunately,
the Jacksons have had very little illness and
very little money has gone towards doctor's bills.

Jackson always votes the straight "Roosevelt ticket"
as a pleasure and a duty. Mrs. Jackson votes only from
a sense of duty. They think the country is prospering
under the New Deal more than in other
years. "I get my share from the owner", Jackson
says, "but neither of us gets what's compung to us.
If us farmers would stick together like the merchants
do, we could get more for our stuff."" Although he has
no complaints against the landowner, he has
moved on the average every third year, "hoping to do
better at the next place". He has done a lot of
thinking about owning a farm but has not yet
seen a way to ownership.

Jackson hunts and fishes in his leisure time. On
Saturday afternoons the family walks or rides with a
neighbor into Chapel Hill. Sally is "going steady
with Bill Young", the son of a neighboring farmer. Bill
occasionally gets the use of his father's car and they
go "gallavanting" around the country to churches, fairs,
ball-games and movies. Sally lives too far
from Chapel Hill to take part in the social life of
the High School and must leave for home in the
school bus promptly after school is out.
