Names of persons changed, but not town.
Date of first writing: January 11, 1939
Name of person interviewed: Robert Dotson Glenn (Negro)
Address: 206 Sylvian Street
Raleigh, N. C.
Occupation: Farmer (retired)
Name of writer: T. Pat Matthews
Raleigh N. C.
Revisor: Edwin Massengill
Number of words: About 3,200

AMOS ABNER COTTON

"Well, I'm just able to get around. I'm about worn out, but I'm thankful I'm able 
to walk," said Amos Abner Cotton, after he had opened the front door in response to a knock.
Abner lives with his wife's daughter, for she charges him no house rent. She has an eight-room, two-story, frame dwelling, and, in addition to Abner, there are two 
Dawson Hotel bellboys rooming there. The house if surrounded by a number of trees 
and the yard has shrubbery which gives the place a nice landscape. It was 
purposefully bought by a Negro woman to be used as a boarding house.
Abner is tall, erect, and sinewy, and has an unusually large neck and head, broad 
shoulders, and a well-developed chest.
"I was born in Orange County, near Hillsboro, in 1850," Abner said, as he began 
relating the story of his life. "I think there were about nine in our family, three girls and six boys, including myself. The boys are all dead except me.
"One of my sisters lives in Person County; one, in Durham County; and one, in 
Granville County. They're all younger than I.
"I was born a slave and first belonged to Gus Mozingo. He seemed to be mighty smart in business. He owned a lot of slaves, land, and also a mil. People nicknamed him 
'Sharper,' and I understood as time passed on that he was called 'Sharper' on 
account of his keenery. He has a grandson who works in a Mr. Logan's store in 
Rougemont. It seems to be the center of attraction in the town. 
"My mother was named Elizabeth, and my father's name was Squire. He was a 
blacksmith and a millwright, and he followed those trades as long as he lived. He 
made horseshoes and the nails to put them on with. My mother was a weaver and a 
clothes-maker, and she could make any kind of clothes.
"Sharper Mozingo raised me till I was eight years old, then he died. A sale took 
place, and I was put on the block and sold to the highest bidder. I fell into the 
hands of Adam Dupree, a speculator, known in those days as a 'nigger trader.' My 
mother and father knew what he was and felt that I would get entirely away from 
them, so my father asked a man by the name of Leonard to take me at purchase price. 
Father had made some money at the trades and he was going to put up some of it.
"Mr. Dupree, after my father had asked him his price, told him what he would take. 
Mr. Leonard and Father put up the money, but Mr. Dupree backed out. Father went to 
Mr. Dupree a second time and he fixed another price. Father told him he was ready 
for settlement. Mr. Dupree told Father he must think himself white. He again 
backed out and drove Father away. I claim by this that I was sold three times in one day.
"There's no use telling what my mother said, but she said she could have stood it 
better if they had took me out to a block and chopped my head off. She would have 
known the going of me.
"It was evening when Mr. Dupree took me up on his horse and left. He carried me to 
a house by the side of the road. It was a large frame building. Two women were 
inside, spinning flax. I went in the house and they told me to sit by the fire. 
This was the first time I had ever been away from my home and Mother. I sat there 
by the fire thinking of her. Soon Mr. Dupree came back, took me up on his horse, 
and carried me on to his home. I stayed there about one year when he traded me to 
Mr. Sam Walters who was going to Kentucky.
"Mother found out where I was and that I was going to be carried away, so she got 
permission from her master to visit me. Mother arrived on a Sunday and found out 
Mr. Walters was not leaving at once; therefore, she asked him to let her take me 
home with her and keep me until he was ready to start. Mr. Walters, my master, 
agreed to this, but his brother, Mr. Dave Walters, a Primitive Baptist minister, 
objected, saying that it was no more harm to part that chap and his mother than it 
was to part a cow and calf. Sam Walters was high-tempered, but he had a great 
feeling for folks. Before Mother left she asked him not to sell me. He made her a 
pledge and he never broke it. I was never sold again.
"'Marster' Walters was going to Kentucky where he could buy land cheap. There was 
Miss Janet, his wife, he, and their two children, Judith and Lawson. The slaves 
were Eliza, Henry, and myself. We traveled mostly by train, and we went by 
Nashville, Tennessee. When we reached Nashville we had to walk for some distance. 
I remember crossing an extensive bridge on this part of the trip. We finally 
reached Webster County, Kentucky, where he bought and settled on a large plantation.
"His first buildings were built of logs, but later he built a good two-story frame 
building with seven rooms and two chimneys. He remained there until several years 
after the Civil War.
"'Marster' Walters learned me to cradle and when I was a boy I could cradle right 
along with him. He also learned me to bind; I could cut rye, wheat, or oats with 
the best of them. He also learned me to be a waggoner; I could look after teams 
well. The Walters were good to me and teached me many things.
"The Walters' language was good, and those with whom I have come in contact in the 
North and West speak better language than people in the South. This accounts for 
my language. I have picked up a lot by contact and practice.
"'Marster' Walters sold all his slaves except me when the War started. He went off 
with the Southern Armies, but he said the North would win. He was a broad-minded 
man, and before the War ended he went to Henderson, Kentucky, took the oath of 
allegiance, and laid down his arms. After this he began planning for what 
eventually come.
"I was valued at $1,800, but as I have stated before, he would not sell me. I do 
not know whether his pledge he had made to Mother several years previous was the 
reason or not; nevertheless, I was not sold when he sold his other slaves.
"One morning in the spring of 1865, my master told me to ketch his horse, saddle 
him, and also to saddle one for myself. This was alarming to me, because I had 
never been allowed to ride horseback with my master before, unless we were driving stock.
"At Christmas I went to a wedding. I had never had such a good time in all my life 
before. I met lots of girls and went to dance after dance. I stayed till all the 
holidays were gone.
"I had gone off without the consent of 'Marster' and had nowhere else to go, so I 
went back. I was in a dread. I went into the kitchen and sat down by the fire. 
Soon I heard the footsteps of the bossman coming, and, I tell you, what he said to 
me was a disappointment but a very favorable one. When he came in he said, 'Hello 
Abner, have you got in?'
"I told him I had been up in Union County to a double wedding, then I got into my 
bed and went to sleep. I do not know how long I slept, but finally he called me 
and I awoke. I answered but did not get up. He came back and said, 'Get up.' As he 
said this he slapped me on first one side of the head then the other.
"I got up and went about regular work. During the day 'Marster' Walters told me to 
carry the wagon over to Mr. Mills' to get a load of hogs. I had never resisted 
before, but I flatly refused to hitch the team or carry the wagon over for him. 
Then I left.
"I walked away down the spring path and went to a neighbor's and offered to hire 
him. He would not hire me on account of his friendship with my former master. I 
spent the night with a colored family, and on the following day I went to the 
county seat and hired to Dr. George Cannon for $100 a year. I stayed with him a 
year. He rented out his farm the next year to a colored man, and I stayed with him 
that year for the same wages.
"The next year I became uneasy on account of the activities of the Ku Klux Klan 
and decided to go to Illinois, which I did. Me and another fellow walked the 
entire distance, about sixty miles.
"I hired to Mr. Joseph Logston number three. There was a big family of those 
people and they went by numbers. It was late fall and he did not give me regular 
work until spring, then he paid me $20 a month. After three years I began farming 
for myself and never worked on the farm for wages again.
"At this time a longing to see my mother again come over me. I studied about it 
day and night. Then I decided to go to North Carolina to see her. I had to go by 
Atlanta and there I met a fellow who I called 'Stranger.' He was broke and I lent 
him the money in return for his promise to help me find my people.
"When we got to Raleigh he showed me where my uncle lived, then he paid me what he 
owed me. I went to my uncle's and learned that my mother lived twenty-one miles on 
the other side of Durham.
"I took a train for Durham, arriving there in the evening. I found my uncle's boys 
and spent the night with them. In the morning we set out for my mother's home.
"It was in December, just before Christmas Eve. We walked and walked, often taking 
short cuts across plantations. When we got near the home we met a gang of boys and 
girls. We inquired of the crowd and asked them if they knew anyone in that 
community by the name of Squire Cotton. When I asked this question my brother, 
William, was in the crowd but I did not know it. He told me that this man lived up 
the road about three hundred yards and that the crowd was on their way to a social 
he was giving that night.
"We all went along together. When we reached the house my mother threw her arms 
around my neck and burst into tears as she exclaimed, 'God be praised. I have seen 
my son who I thought was dead.' Father said his prayers were answered.
"I stayed around awhile but went back to Illinois because wages were better there 
and my girl was out there. Soon after I got back we married. After marrying, I 
decided to steamboat awhile.
"I worked on a steamer, the Vibrator, which ran on the Wabash, a tributary of the 
Ohio. We carried freight and passengers. I was a deck hand and got one dollar a 
day and board on this job. I stayed there two years, then I went back to the 
plantation, settled down, and went to farming with my father-in-law. It was in the 
high water boundary and I got dissatisfied about that.
"I left the dorm and went to a western coal mine and worked on a slope. I was paid 
by the car, and I got along very well. I was later caretaker at the tip. I worked 
there five years, then I went back to the farm. I never left it again until I was 
so old I retired.
"There were seven girls and three boys in my family. That's what I call a 
reasonably large family. I never taxed my mind about the number of children we 
would have. This is an honest version. I just let what happened, happen. I do not 
think a large family keeps a man from making money, that is, if he teaches his 
children to work. I really like a large family. 
"As far back as I can trace my ancestors, they were thrifty and honest. None of 
the immediate family has ever been in any serious trouble. You can quote me as 
believing fully in education for these reasons: Besides the pleasure an education 
gives the individual, it causes people to be better citizens. It broadens anyone's 
mind and helps them to know the duties of life and act towards its problems in a 
more cheerful and dignified manner. In fact, it helps to make all humanity to 
understand and pull with their fellow man in fighting the battles of life.
"I was taught by the white folks, and for awhile I attended one of the Negro 
colleges. I educated my children. Graduated two from Waldron University of 
Nashville, Tennessee. Their names were Sylvia and Constance. The others' education 
was fair. My son, Gurney, taught school.
"In 1908 I came back to North Carolina and rented a farm from Mr. W. E. Matx near 
Lake Vira. I made considerable money, saving more than I had ever saved before. I 
had $2,000 in cash, besides several hundred dollar' worth of farm produce, but the 
same weakness that caused me not to prosper in the West caused me to lose what I 
made in the South. This was: I was always too easily persuaded to do things which 
were against me. It seems to me now that my greatest weakness was taking my 
colored friends too seriously, and I desired to help people who needed my assistance.
"I threw away a good thing when I left the steamboat, Vibrator. I listened too 
much to my friends when I became dissatisfied and left the job of caretaking at 
the mine, 'Tip.' I trusted too much when I allowed a company to take 3,00 bushels 
of corn on the barge without giving me a bill of lading. The money I made in North 
Carolina, I loaned it out and lost it.
"My income at present is small. My wife and myself get $10 per month from Old Age 
Pension. I have no other source of income. My wife works as a nurse. I could live 
well on $15 per month if I did not have to divide it with my wife. She's as much 
entitled to it as I am, though, because she is old, too. She's my second wife and 
is sixty-seven years old. We never had children. She had four children by a former 
marriage. We stay with first one and then another of her children. We take it turn-about.
"I am a Republican, but Mr. Roosevelt was the man for the particular time of his 
administration. He has done a great work. I think a person should exercise the 
dictates of his own conscience in regard to voting. I have the same opinion in 
regard to religion. There is one thing I have noticed over a long period of time, 
and it is this: There is no difference in the way a Republican or Democrat treats 
a Negro. I have worked a lot with whites of both parties, and the white Democrats 
treated me just as nice as the white Republicans.
"I believe fully in religion and while church membership does not save us, I think 
all Christians should belong to some church. Morals are great, but I think they 
are not as high at present as they were in some periods of the past. Moving 
pictures shows and automobiles are the main causes of this condition, according to 
my way of thinking. Young people go to the movies and see the love scenes. It 
makes them more susceptible. They see robberies and murders on the screen, and 
sometimes they think over these matters and decide to try it themselves.
"I am opposed to dances, especially the round dance. A man cannot take a good 
looking woman in his arms, hold her tight and do the stepping and squirming of our 
modern dances without having feelings and thoughts that ought not to be in his 
mind or body. THat's what I believe, and it's an honest and frank statement.
"I have always donated to churches, but at the present, owing to the condition, I 
am exempt from any further contributions. I belong to the Missionary Baptist 
Church down on Dodson Creek.
"During my entire life I have been blessed with good health. My family was also 
healthy, and I never spent very much for medical care. However, when my first wife 
was sick we had a doctor, but the charges were reasonable. I guess I have always 
eaten a balanced diet. I like the meats and vegetables of the farm, with coffee 
and sugar and a change to the fancy rations, such as cakes and fruits now and 
then. I have always been careful of my physical self. I have never had any social 
disease and I believe in cleanliness and have always tried to keep my body clean.
"My chief regret in life is that I have never accomplished anything lasting. I do 
not own a plantation, while one of my greatest ambitions was to own one. I am too 
old now for this dream to ever come true."
