Names changed.

Date of first writing: Jan. 23rd, 1939
Name: Wade Hampton Taylor
Address: Textile Hotel
Place: Gastonia, N. C.
Occupation: Hotel Manager and cotton man
Name of writer: John H. Abner, Gastonia, N. C.
Revisers George L. Andrews

Cotton in the Blood

"Good old Memphis," said Miles Thornton, manager of
the Textile Hotel, of Beaumont, V. C. "She's a grand
old lady, on a mighty big river. Her streets teem with
life, and the river teems with catfish. And there the
darky snares those catfish. With hook and line, and
with trap and basket, he snares the catfish; and then
he fries them brown. And the nostrils of the white man
twitch and wobble, for the aroma of the fried cat is
pleasant.
"Good old Memphis. She is the mother of Jazz, and
from Jazz came Swing, for as Mr. Mercer says: 'They just
cut the tempo down and then they really went to town.'
Yes, and it was Memphis Town. There are those who would
give the credit for Jazz to New Orleans, but I say Memphis.
Memphis is the mother of Jazz. Who has not heard The
Memphis Blues? Memphis is a good old town. Steamboat
Bill has swaggered along her waterfront, and Casey Jones
has tooted his whistle in her yard. 'But Ol' Man River,
he jes keeps rollin' along.' Yes. Memphis is the mother
of Jazz, but Ol' Man River is her daddy. In the days of
her youth he fed her on tough meat. That was necessary
that she grow big and strong; for she was to become the
handmaiden of King Cotton. And she did! She's the biggest
inland cotton market in the world, and ten trunk line
railroads thread her streets and alleys. And more hardwood
lumbar is shipped from Memphis than from any other point
in the world.
"I was born in Memphis, July 24th, 1883, and I lived
there for thirty-nine years. I've been away for a long
time, but I still love the old town. I love the hustle
and bustle of the riverfront. I can still hear the tooting
of the steamboats; and I used to like to watch the darky
roustabouts wrestle bales of cotton. There's a trick, a
swing, a balance, in the way they handle a bale of cotton.
To watch them truck and push the bales about you'd think
that the bales were light, but they weigh around five
hundred pounds. But a good roustabout can take one hand
and rock a five hundred pound bale of cotton onto a truck
as though it was a feather pillow.
"At age six I started to school, and I went to
school until I was about fifteen or sixteen years old. I
finished the eighth grade and then quit. I could have had
a better education, but I tired of school. Schools were
not so common at that time, and when I quit school it was
my intention to go to medical college when I got older.
My father was a physician. I wanted to follow in his
footsteps. So I quit school when I was about sixteen,
and started going around with my father on his medical
calls. Often we'd leave home early in the morning and be
away until dark. If we were in town we might come home
to dinner, but sometimes we'd be way out in the country.
Then we would take dinner with some of our friends. The
old style doctor was often more than a physician. He was
also friend and counselor; and was welcome anywhere. My
father practiced in town and country both. He used a horse
and buggy most of the time; especially in town; but when
the country roads were bad he would ride horseback.
"It was customary at that time for every doctor to
carry a supply of simple drugs and medicines with him on
his calls. A patient might live ten miles in the country
and be unable to get to a drug store. While he could be
very sick, his illness might be easily remedied; and the
country doctor would diagnose, prescribe, and then fill
his prescription, right there at the patient's home.
Money, lives, and time were saved by that system; and
it seems to me that it was a better system than we have
today. Now if a man has a bad cold and calls a doctor,
the doctor's likely to write him three or four prescriptions,
and the druggist is likely to charge him three or four
dollars, yet, in all the four prescriptions there may not
be fifteen cents worth of drugs. Some of our doctors and
druggists are little better than racketeers. The price
of medicine should be kept low, so that the poor could
buy it. Personally, I'd rather risk my life with one of
the old style , family doctors, than with one of these hard-eyed,
white-coated sharks, that now carve upon humanity.
The old style family doctor, who was so common thirty or
forty years ago, had sympathy for his patients. He regarded
them as human beings, entitled to human treatment. Many
of today's doctors and surgeons impress me as lacking in
sympathy. They seem to look upon their patients as germs;
something to be cut up and destroyed. I've known my
father to weep with the family because a member of that
family died. Can you imagine one of these hard-eyed sharks,
weeping because he lost a patient? I cannot. It is all
in the day's work to him, and he'd probably fall back on
that ghastly joke. 'The operation was successful, but
the patient died.'
"It seems to me that our modern doctors are not
taught to relieve suffering, but to cause suffering.
From the time they start in medical school they're taught
to cut and kill. They cut up cats, rats, frogs, birds,
rabbits, and other small life, watching their sufferings
and death struggles with calculating eyes. Then they
graduate, and come out from college, well prepared to cut
up human beings in the same way.
"But this is the age of cruelty. Look at the bombings
in Spain and China. I just don't see how one human being
can fly over a town and drop those shrieking bombs on
helpless women and children. And I don't believe that
any man who does such hellishness will ever know peace.
The screams of those mutilated women and children will
ring in his ears for the balance of his life . In the dark
night he'll wake, in a cold sweat, and find that invisible
devils are grappling with his very entrails! He'll have
evil dreams, and see evil visions, and evil voices will
lead him ever onward to his doom. And his end will be
according to his evil, for the wages of sin is death.
But perhaps we should make allowances here; because any
man who'd deliberately mutilate and murder helpless women
and children is bad off somewhere. There is something
wrong with his head, and there is something wrong with his
heart. By the laws of civilization he should be classed
as a monstrous murderer, as well as a coward. He does
not fight. He could not be called a combatant. He just
flies high in the air, over defenseless cities, and drops
bombs on women and children. That is not war. That is
murder. War is fighting; and most of this hellish bombing
has happened to cities which had no air defense whatever.
"Then look at the oppression of the Jews in Germany
and Italy.. The Jews are not charged with any crime. They
are oppressed merely because they're Jews. It would be a
blessing to both the German and Italian people if someone
shot their leaders. Both Hitler and Mussolini should be
killed as quickly as possible; and as mercilessly as
poisonous snakes. Both are mad, and unless they're stopped
they'll lead their people into a terrible war. And it may
spread all over the world. All these things are an indication
of the truth that humanity is threatened with insanity.
It begins to look as if civilization was dying out; and
as if we were going back into the dark ages. But no. That
won't do. The dark ages were more humane than we of today.
"I think that the passing of the old style doctor is
a tragedy; especially to the very poor. Nowadays, the
very poor are practically deprived of medical attention,
because the cost is prohibitive. Before a doctor can tell
that a man is constipated, he must make an X-ray picture;
cost, ten to one hundred dollars; according to the patient's
bank roll. The old style, family doctor, could tell that
by looking at the tongue. Then he gave a dose of calomel
and salts, cost of treatment and visit, one to five dollars,
according to how far he had to drive. Science tells us
now that the patient sometimes had appendicitis, and that
the purgative was bad for him; and sometimes even killed
him. But I don't know about that. Science has set afloat
many rumors, and most of those rumors are calculated to
add dollars to his store. Also, Science has remained
strangely silent as to how many of his patients died under
the operation; and as to how many sound appendixes he
has removed.
"My father also owned several farms which he let out
to tenants, sometimes white families, and sometimes colored.
Most everyone liked my father. He was naturally a kind
man, as well as a good doctor. He had a good practice and
earned good money, but he did not become grasping. He
treated his tenants well, and they stayed with him, year
after year. His tenants would have no doctor but him!
"When my father made his rounds in town I'd go along
with him and drive the horse. When he rode horseback into
the country I'd also ride along with him. I was personally
acquainted with many of the families where he visited,
and would often go into the house with him. I was learning
what I could, for later I was expecting to attend medical
college and learn to be a doctor myself. From these
visits, and from asking questions of my father, I became
familiar with such drugs and mixtures as he commonly carried.
Calomel, salts, Dobell's Solution, Dover's Powder, I. Q.
and S., and such things, he carried in his saddle bags,
along with his instruments; and I came to know such
things as he carried, and for what he used them.
"When I was about seventeen years old my father went
to Philadelphia to take a three weeks' course. I cannot
recall just what it was, but no doubt it was some new
process or treatment. Before leaving my father put his
practice in the hands of Doctor Buford, a brother physician.
He also left word with the family to send anyone who came
for him to Doctor Buford.
"A day or so after my father left I was sitting on
the front porch reading. A colored boy rode up and inquired
for my father. I knew the boy. He was a member of one of
my father's tenant families, and was riding one of our mules.
He did not tell me what he wanted and I told him that father
had gone to Philadelphia. I also told him that if he wanted
a doctor he should go for Doctor Buford.
"The boy rode away and I continued reading. In about
an hour he was back, and he told me that his father had
sent him after me. I told him to go and saddle my father's
mare; he knew which horse my father rode. The boy
saddled the mare and I rode along with him to his home.
There I found a member of the family sick in bed; a girl
about fifteen years old. I told the father of the girl
that he should summon Doctor Buford but he would not hear
to that.
"'Nawsuh, Mr. Miles,' he said. "We ain't gwine hab
no strange doctor. Ef yo Paw's gone off you doctor dat
gal yoself. She's plum sick.'
"Well, my father's instruments and drugs were in the
saddle bags. I got them out and felt the girl's pulse.
Her pulse was rapid, and she had a temperature of 102.
It looked like a touch of malaria, but I was not sure, and
I did not want to take any chances. I mixed some quinine,
Dover's Powder, and calomel together, and filled several
No. one capsules. I gave the girl one and instructed her
mother to continue giving the capsules, three hours apart.
Then I went out to the well to examine the water. I had
the darky draw a bucket of water. It was none too clear,
and it had a bad taste. I did not drink any of the water,
but I rinsed my mouth with it as I had seen my father do.
I told the Negro that the water was impure, and that
he must clean the well out at once. There was a good
spring some distance from the house, and I told him to
get his drinking water from the spring until he had got
the well cleaned out.
"'Yassuh, Mr. Miles, sho will,' he said.
"I told him also that I'd be riding out that way the
next day, and that I'd stop by and see how the girl was
getting along. I charged him two dollars for the visit
and he paid me then.
"The next day I rode up to the house and stopped.
The girl had eaten a hearty breakfast, and was sitting up.
Her temperature and pulse were normal, and she seemed well
on the road to recovery. I judged that she did not need
any more medicine; and as I had just stopped by I made
no charge for that trip. I told them that I'd look in
the next day.
"The next day I stopped by and the girl was well!
She was out in the field, hoeing cotton* T%at was on
Friday, and on Sunday the family went to church. Negro
like, they spread the news of the girl's miraculous
recovery, along with the information that I had taken
over my father's practice; and that I was an expert
judge of drinking water. This news spread among the Negroes,
and there was an epidemic of well cleaning. They also
spread my fame as a physician and during the next few days
I had several calls. I earned about thirty dollars from
my medical practice, and all my patients lived.
"I did not write my father what I was doing, because
I knew that he'd order me to stop it. I was having a
wonderful time posing as a physician; but of course, I
took no chances. I gave nothing except ordinary remedies;
and I had already resolved to call in Doctor Buford if
any complications developed. But everything went so well
with my patients that I did not need to call on him. When
my father came back from Philadelphia I told him what I
had been doing. He was quite shocked.
"'Did anybody die?' he queried.
"'Oh, no,' I said. 'They are all up, well, and going
about.''
"'Well son.' he said. 'you don't realize the enormity
of your offense. You've been practicing medicine without
a license.'
"Soon after that, boy like, I lost interest in the
medical profession. I got interested in old King Cotton.
My uncle McSpadden, owned a warehouse, and he gave me a
job in it. There I learned the cotton business. Memphis
was a boom town at that time, and cotton was king. There
was great activity in cotton, and in lumber and shipping.
The whole country was growing and building, and Memphis
shipped cotton and lumber all over the world.
"I liked the warehouse business. I worked with my
uncle for ten years. I learned all I could about cotton,
and my uncle made me his assistant. At the end of ten
years he closed out his warehouse business; and I went
to work for Brooks, Neely, and Finley; as supervisor
of weighing and examination. Sometimes cotton is kept
stored in a warehouse for a long time. Then, before it
can be shipped out, it must be re-weighed and examined
for condition.
"Along about that time I went up to Louisville to
see the Kentucky Derby. I enjoyed myself immensely. I
liked the colorful crowds and I enjoyed the races too.
From that time on I was a Derby fan, and I saw the Derby
run for twelve successive seasons.
"I worked for Brooks, Neely, and Finley for six
years. I made pretty good money, and I saved a part of
it. I had no one to look after but myself. I've never
married. I guess I am a confirmed bachelor. After six
years with Brooks, Neely, and Finley, I had saved quite a
bit of money, so I decided to go in business for myself.
"My uncle McSpadden, for whom I had formerly worked,
was also looking around for an opening in the cotton
business. Once a cotton man always a cotton man. I
reckon cotton gets in the blood. Anyway, that is an
old saying. The born cotton man loves cotton. He talks
cotton, thinks cotton, and believes in cotton. He may
be bullish or he say be bearish, but he believes in
cotton, one way or the other. He's most likely to think
that cotton is either going up or down.
"My uncle McSpadden wanted to get back into the
cotton business, so we formed a partnership under the
firm name of Thornton & McSpadden. We represented fourteen
cotton buying firms, and we made money. Our partnership
lasted four years.
"In 1922 I got an offer from the California, Arizona,
Mexico Cotton Association, to come to California. For
some reason cotton men didn't like to stay in California,
and they had difficulty in keeping a good cotton man.
Consequently, they made me such a good offer that I felt
that I should accept it. I disliked to leave Memphis
and all my friends, but business is business. I sold
out my share of the partnership to my uncle, and went
out to California in 1922.
"There I was inspector, or chief examiner, of all the
cotton handled by the Association. I examined and checked
the weights; both at gins and warehouses. It was not
such an easy job as it might seem to be. I had to travel
the San Joaquin, Palo Alto, and Imperial Valleys in
California; and the Great Salt Elver Valley in Arizona.
I also had to cross the line into Old Mexico. The Company
furnished me a car and chauffeur because I had so many
long jumps. It was 1,200 miles across my territory,
and 1,200 miles back. I was paid a good salary, but
I earned it. I had to weigh and examine every bale of
cotton before it could be snipped out. My headquarters
were in Los Angeles. I worked for the Association eight
years.
"In 1929 the depression hit us, as well as everyone
else. In 1930 I came here to Beaumont, and went to work
for my brother, W. I. Thornton, who was also in the cotton
business. I worked for him five years, but most of that
time Old King Cotton was sick. Sometimes I fear that he
is on his last legs; and if that be the case, I don't
know what we in the South will do. We've raised cotton
so long that it would probably take an economic upheaval
to jar us from our rut; and it might be that a new
generation would have to come along before we could change
our cropping system. I guess we got cotton in the blood,
and maybe on the brain. Still, we hope. Old King Cotton
has been sick many times, but he has always recovered. Let
us hope that new uses for cotton will be discovered, and
that he'll get well. There's no fiber that hangs and
drapes so well as cotton. It is a clean, vegetable fiber,
and is as far ahead of these synthetic fibers as day is
of night. Cotton is soft and clinging, but these
synthetic fibers are hard and glistery. They are also
heavy, and they do not drape. They droop, that's it!
They droop. Go out into the street and look in the show
windows. Find one of those rayon dresses hanging there,
and look how it droops. Then feel its weight and harshness.
I declare I can't see why women buy the things. And silk,
now? Silk is only the scum of a worm. It stands to
reason that silk is nasty. Who would want to clothe
themselves in the scum of a worm? Yes. Silk is only
the scum of a worm, and these synthetic fibers are the
scum of science. They're nasty, and they stink. But
cotton is clean and sweet, for cotton is the fibers of
GOD! Sometimes I think that if our cotton manufacturers
had had any get-up and imagination that they would not
have set idly, and let these false fibers replace cotton.
So you see I'm naturally a cotton man. I'm now an innkeeper
but not from choice.
"I came here to the Textile Hotel in 1935, and I've
been here ever since. While I like the hotel business
all right, I am naturally a cotton man."
Mr. Thornton had been looking through the drawer
of a small table. He took out a stack of newspaper
clippings and handed them to me. "Do you want to know
anything about my hobbies?" he asked.
"Oh yes," I said, "and about your politics and church
preference"
"Well," he continued, "I've always been a Democrat.
I have never joined a church, but I lean toward the
Methodists. My father and mother were both church
members, and I was raised in the Methodist faith."
I looked through the newspaper clippings. They
told of his prowess as a billiard expert. I copied the
following from one of the clippings.
"Miles Thornton defeated M. B. Hooper, 3O to 7, in
the first match at three cushion billiards. Thornton
completed his three matches with a perfect score of 150.
"Won 3. Lost 0. Per cent 1.000"
"Pretty good," I commented. "You seem to have shook
a mean cue. Is there anything else that you have thought
of? Anything else to tell?"
"No," he said, "I guess that's all. I've told the
story right down to date."
So I thanked Mr. Thornton for his story and took my
leave. I was unable to find a suitable room when I first
came to Beaumont, so I spent a week at the Textile Hotel.
Mr. Thornton is a jolly fellow, about fifty-five years,
always smiling, and seems to have the regular 'glad hand'
of the natural hotel manager.
However, Mr. Thornton did not seem to be proud of
his managership. On the contrary, he seemed to be somewhat
ashamed of it. The Textile Hotel is a small, cheap,
lodging place, of about thirty rooms; patronized mostly
by working people. It has two wings. All the rooms
have running water, but only one wing has heat. Rooms
on that side are three fifty per week, and unheated rooms
are three dollars per week. In the very nature of things
the place could not bring in much money; and as in this
country a man is judged almost solely by the amount of
money he earns, or gets possessions of, it is only natural
that Mr. Thornton should not be proud of his job.
But he looks after the place well, and tries to make
his guests feel at home. There's a small radio in the
lobby, and guests are at liberty to play the radio. There's
also a small table, marked off in squares, for checkers.
Guests are at liberty to play checkers, and games of cards,
on that table.
On Christmas Eve, while I was out to supper, Mr.
Thornton slipped a Christmas Card under my door, on which
ha had inscribed a suitable sentiment, in a full round
hand, which had an astonishing resemblance to that of
the old time penmanship teachers, who were once so common
in the south; traveling about from place to place; and
teaching both young and old to wield the pen; which at
that time was said to be mightier than the word. I much
admired the penmanship, and thanked Mr. Thornton for the
card, and wished him a Merry Christmas.