Date: Nov. 15, 1938
Typed: 1/29/39
Name Of Writer: Spencer Farm
Seaboard, N.C.
No. Of Words: 5440

"SHELTER AGAINST ALL EVIL"

	"Home is the shelter I build for my wife and my children against all evil.
	Home is a woman watching from a window for my coming.
	I pray God that Home be the merry of kindness left to my children.
	Home is the hope that my sons shall carry on all that I have left unfinished." *
	Although this as the selection chosen to be read at a previous meeting of an adult education class, there are no songs at the Carter Taylors'. 
	What would there be to carry on that has been left unfinished? There are three daughters living, one dead. 
	Maybe Carter Taylor dreamed once of building a "shelter against all evil" for his wife and his children. But evil there is now; beyond the cracks in the walls that let the winter in; beyond the shack of physical shelter that houses the Taylors; it abides like a spectre, living, moving, having so much a being within the household that its presence can be felt by a stranger: the evil of despair, of fear, of indigent old age. 
	*Selection chosen and read by Mrs. Carter Taylor at the adult education class at Mrs. Willie Balmer's on October 27. 
	For Carter Taylor, Home has indeed become a woman watching from a window, watching in loneliness and fear, so that Carter the huntsman dares not go beyond the edge of the woods for his squirrels, beyond calling distance of a woman's voice; must make a hurried trip for groceries, not tarrying at the country store where men gather to settle farm problems, appraise the government program, and exchange man-talk.
	For Mrs. Carter Taylor is afraid to stay by herself. The "nervous breakdown" have a few years ago that kept her five months at Williamsburg, is a cloud over the Taylor horizon much bigger than a man's hand. It overshadows the husband's activities, keeps him at the fire side or in calling distance of the house, and lingers in the family consciousness. Fear of the future, despair over the present, knowledge of this five months at Williamsburg hang almost like a physical shadow over the house. 
	The House is unpainted and gray. On the small white bench in the porch are a sultana and two other potted plants in bloom. Beyond the clothes line are two rows of red and rust zinnias touched lightly by frost. Yellow canna lilies bloom at the corner of the house. Everything else is gray. 
	The door is opened. The light inside is very dim. This woman does not look like Mrs. Carter Taylor of the adult education class meeting.
	"I thought Mrs. Taylor lives here." 
	"She does. I'm Mrs. Taylor. Come in."
	"Not Mrs. Carter Taylor -?"
	"No, I'm her daughter, Mrs. Earl Taylor. - Mama!"
	Mrs. Carter Taylor comes from the kitchen with a lamp, followed by little 10 year old Janice. She still does not look like the Mrs. Carter Taylor I had seen. Her hair seems grayer, the lines in her face are deeper; she is older. She becomes the gracious hostess.      .      .      "Home is a woman -"
	"Excuse way I look. We've had ten peanut pickers to cook for tp-day, eight white and two niggers. Lena May came up here to help me, don't I never would o' got through. We've just finished supper. Won't you go have some?"
	Mrs. Taylor wears a faded red dress and apron. Lena May, brown-eyed and open-faced, is dressed neatly in a print. 
	An oak and an iron bed stained walnut are parallel with the North wall in the middle room; on the spread of the oak bed lies a True Story magazine. In the corner is a wash stand with a bowl and pitcher partially covered by a towel. On the plain white paper, torn here and there, are one small motto picture and calendars. A small tin trunk by the door contains what treasures? In the crude fireplace two large chunks of blackened wood smolder, not cheerfully or adequately against the cold air that rushes in through cracks. Over the mantle is spread a white lambrequin embroidered in pink flowers with green leaves. The old clock strikes seven.
	"I'm waitin' here now for Earl to come after me," Lena May explains. "Papa will be back presently. He stepped down to the store to get a few things. He doesn't like to leave mama unless somebody is with her besides Janice."
	"Nobody lives in a mile on either side of us, and it ain't safe. I have to walk a quarter of a mile with Janice to catch the truck to school every mornin'. It ain't safe, with nigger trampin' the road." 
	"Mama, your mouth," Lena May reminds her. 
	Mrs. Taylor wipes the snuff off with her apron. "Lena May is always after me about my snuff. Seems like since I got my false teeth I can't keep it out'n the corners of my mouth; the teeth ain't real tight in my mouth."
	Janice, a sallow-faced, sandy-haired, rather homely child, eases into Mrs. Taylor's lap and is fondled. 
	"We adopted Janice when she was just a few months old. I didn't never think anybody else's child could be as close as your own, but I don't know no difference between her and Lena May and Beatrice and the daughter that's dead. Beatrice? She's in Petersburg." Mrs. Taylor speaks rapidly, almost defensively, and Lena May seems to hurry away from further reference to her sister, who, according to reliable information is not all she might be. 
	"They didn't adopt her legally. But she's like one of us. I told mama to call her Janice Brown Taylor; she was born a Brown." 
	"We want to keep her in school if possible, but if times gets any tighter I don't see no way. They're always callin' for a nickel or a dime or a quarter at school; it has to come, and we just don't have it."
	"Nobody has it this year. Earl sharecrops for his father and grandmother, and on nine acres we won't make about one and a half bales of cotton. We can't pay out. I don't know what folks will do. I wish I could get some work. I'd do anything, work in the cafeteria or sewin' room or any kind of job. I love to sew. There's nothin' to do round here but pick cotton and shake peas, and that's over. I didn't have to go through high school to learn to do that. People think when you get married you are not to work away from home or fix up or have any more good times. Somebody said to me the other day: 'What you want to paint your nails for? You're married.' I like to fix up and go to parties just same as when I was single, but hey won't ask you now. I got married after I finished at Seaboard three years ago. I don't have any children." 
	"She married her first cousin. What you think o' that? They was sweethearts from little ones, though." 
	"Earl hasn't got any health. He's not really able to work. We live with his folks, and they spoil him. But we can't do no better now. I worked in the mail at Roanoke Rapids three months till work got slack and they laid me off. Then I drew thirty nine dollars and something, compensation money. We started buyin' a little furniture for our house that's never been built. Earl's father give him an acre and a half to build on, and Earl got him some logs and timber together; he always said he was goin' to have him a log house. It don't look like it now though. But we're young. What worries me is conditions here. Papa's too old to work hard as he does; he's sixty eight and has heart trouble and high blood pressure. There's nobody to help him but Mama, and she's not able to either. If he could just get a job as overseer on somebody's farm --" said the mother. 
	"I'm not much o'count no more, I'm nervous and have neuritis terrible. Right now my back's hurtin' so bad I don't know what do. I'm bound to help him plant and house the crop; they ain't no money to hire hands.
	"Mr. Spencer's payin' his have to hire the peanuts picked off. He's the only landlord around here," Lena May Adds, "that pays half. Usually the sharecropper furnish is the team and pays the labor that Hass to be hired, and the landlord pays for the fertilizer. The landlord figures his tenant ought to have enough hands in his family to house a crop. We had a pretty horse we paid three hundred and fifty dollars for, but he got so old we had to sell him and buy a mule. We all thought a lot of that horse. Papa's never owned a car."
	"The only way we can get anywhere is to walk or go on the mule and cart. We can't even get to church now, and I miss that the worst! I belong at Galatia. Sometimes I'm fit to pitch out and walk to Seaboard to church since it's nearer. Mrs. Stancell come down here and took a load of the women in her class to the revival at the Baptist church, and I shore did enjoy it. We love Mrs. Stancell. I enjoyed the class a lot. I never saw Mrs. Jordan before the other evenin' at Mrs. Balmer's. I liked her." 
	"I asked Mrs. Stancell if she reckoned I could teach the class after she left. Of course I know I couldn't do as good as she did, but I think I could help the women. Mrs. Stancell said with just my high school trainin' she was afraid I couldn't get the job. I don't have a car to get around in either. I'd work in the mill again if I could get a place."
	"Lena May teaches the primary class at Galatia Sunday school. We was near enough to walk to church before we moved here."
	"How many times have you moved, Mrs. Taylor?"
	"Law, I don't know. We've averaged once a year, mostly in Northampton. One year we lived near Battleboro and farmed for a fourth of a crop. If we just had a car so we could go to preachin' -- both of us loves church. It's so lone some here, with nothin' to do these long nights but go to bed; tired as I am I can't sleep all night, and there's no neighbors close enough to visit. A radio would be a big help, but we can't afford one." Mrs. Taylor looks into the dying fire.
	"Papa's never owned any land. They've sharecropped and rented all their lives. And it's been hard for them. A one-horse farm is all papa's ever been able to tend, situated like he is without any plow-hands. He's had to take just such a place as he could get. You never get a decent house to live in on a one-horse share crop. This is one of the worst they've had -- just two little rooms in the kitchen, with such big cracks in the walls that you can't get the house warm.
	"We've never had the clothes we needed nor the food we ought to eat. Of course we've not been really hungry, because we raise things to eat -- a garden in the summer and in the winter collards and sweet potatoes and turnips and chickens and meat."
	Mrs. Taylor reminds Lena May that there will be no pigs another year. "We've got three to kill this fall, but we won't have none next time. My chickens are sca'ce too. Somethin' caught 'em. I'm bound to sell what eggs I can get, we need spendin' money so bad. We raised a nice chance o' white potatoes this year, but soon as hard weather comes they'll freeze. They's nowhere here to keep 'em; we got 'em out yonder in a old horse stable now. We can't get milk and clabber, and Janice needs milk." 
	"She ought to have fruit and cereals too. We all had." Lena May turns her head attentively towards the door. "There's Papa now." 
	Carter Taylor enters carrying a large paper big which he lays on the foot of the bed. 
	"Here's your cheese and stuff." 
	Dressed in faded tan trousers, a striped work shirt over which he wears a dark waist coat, Carter Taylor carries himself straight as a soldier, with something of an air in spite of the faded torn clothes. His dark hair is awry on his head, stubbly beard grows around his chin and lips, his cheeks are rosy, his teeth yellowed and snaggled. He might well have been a dashing devil of a fellow with high notions once, with dreams of sons and a living from the earth in Northampton. The devil has receded now, leaving a whipped, aging, disillusioned sharecropper who drops down wearily by the cheerless fire.
	Lena May adds a small piece of old board which makes a quick flame that soon burns itself out and leaves a smoldering chunks as before. There are no sons to cut and tote in wood.
	"I could hardly make it to the house. It was all I could do to put one foot before the other. I got up at four o'clock this mornin' and worked in peanuts all day long. She wanted some stuff from the store; so I eat supper and stepped down there, bein' as Lena May was here. She is afraid to stay by herself."
	"It's so lonesome." 
	Mr. Taylor with an announcement, unprocessed by an apology, that he is going to dip him some snuff, takes his box from a pocket and worries his toothbrush around in the snuff till it is of the consistent fullness he desires; he conveys the brush to his mouth and seems refreshed. 
	"I've got up at four o'clock all my life. I'm sexy seven and--"
	"I thought you were sixty eight, Papa."
	"No, I ain't but sixty seven. I'm givin' out though." Lena May lays her hand on his knee, feels a rough place, fingers the tan cloth. "It's tore. I'll be sixty eight my next birthday, and I have to work hard now as I've ever done. Sometimes I feel like quittin'."
	"I fee like we just as well quit." Mrs. Taylor speaks quickly as though the idea is not new at all, as though she is ready to be party to a compact. 
	"No, you can't quit." Lena May's ultimatum cuts across their depression. "You have to keep tryin'. As long as you can make enough to eat, that's somethin'." 
	"Somethin' t'eat's mor'n I can make this time. Lloyd Piland's been a-furnishin' me the last two years from his store. I owe him forty dollars on last year's account. I paid him all I had and told him I couldn't go no more. 'You can't get blood out'n a turnip,' I says. 'You can take the turnip, if that's any good to you.' Mr. Piland says to me: 'Taylor, that leaves me in sort o' bad fix. But I'm goin' to try you another year and see how we get along.'" Carter spits on a blackened chunk of wood. 
	"Well, he's tried me fair and square. They's still that forty dollarsand over hund'ed for this year's account. One hund'ed and forty dollars for groceries. My mule -- I call him mine, but it's all on paper -- I owe one hund'ed and seventy five dollars -- hain't paid a cent on him. Add one hund'ed and forty to one hund'ed and seventy five. I got a hospital bill for Beatrice and doctors' bills for first one and then the other here. I had a dun from Dr. Fleetwood in Conway and two or three from the Roanoke Rapids Hospital different times. I owe Dr. Parker. I ain't worrying' 'bout Dr. Parker though; he ain't a-goin' to push me. 
	"Last year I owed him I didn't know how much money for trips and medicine, and one day I says to him: 'Doc, how much I owe you? I ain't go no money, but I'd just like to know how we stand.' He looked on his books and said, 'Forty two dollars.' 'I just asked,' I says. 'I never 'spect to pay you.' 'I bet you do,' Dr. Parker tells me. 
	"Well, a while after that I got hold of a little money, and I hunted him up. 'Doc,' I says, 'I want to pay you a little money to-day.' 'How much you want to pay me, Carter?' 'Twenty dollars,' I says. He took the money and says: 'You pay me twenty five and call it even.' I didn't have no more money, but my wife gathered up vegetables and a chicken or two and a ham and finished payin' him off, finally. 
	"She had a bone-feller a while back that kept her awake night and day --"
	"A whitlow, Dr. Parker calls it," Lena May explains. 
	"It hurt her so bad there was several days and nights she never took off her clothes. Dr. Parker come several times then and took her to the hospital three times and didn't charge us but fifteen dollars. I'll pay him sometime. I ain't a-dreadin' Dr. Parker."
	"He's got a good heart." From Mrs. Taylor. 
	"Well, there it is -- my debts. And what you reckon I'll make this year? One bale o' cotton; I've done sold it. For my half I got $19.75. I paid 19 of it for debts around Seaboard before I left town. And my peas -- A buyer from Jackson try to get them for three and a quarter when everybody's givin' three forty. On my part of the peas it'll be about 125 bags, three and forty a pound. If that's payin' out you're a good figgerer. 
	"There won't be a rag o' clothes or shoes; our feet's on the ground. And who'll furnish us groceries or where we'll go next year I don't know." 
	"Mama needs a coat this winter. Her old one is so threadbare it don't keep the cold out." 
	"This house is so threadbare it don't keep the cold out neither. It ain't fit for decent folks to live in. I told Peter Spencer if he'd furnish the timber I'd do the work myself. We need repairs and more room. We're outdoors. He ain't goin' to furnish no timber." 
	"I don't reckon he's able, Papa." 
	"He ought to provide a house; do you call this a house? The landlords claim there ain't enough in a one-horse crop to provide a decent shelter to live in. It's such a place as niggers are satisfied to live in. They stayed here before we come. If you raise any complaint, the landlords say: 'All right, I can get somebody that'll be satisfied.' And they can. So you have to put up or be put out.
	"Peter Spencer's right down good; he's a hickory over some. They ain't many good landlords. They're good till they get you between their fingers; then they pinch." Carter demonstrates with his fingers. "I know 'em. I never had to go to law with but one. I didn't get farther than a hearin' that time, but I was goin' on with it if he hadn't come across. I was sharecroppin' on a fourth that year down near Battleboro. The landlord wanted me to pay a fourth of the fertilize. I refused. He said I had to. A doctor down there told me to go to law, and he'd stand the costs if the case went against me. The landlord come on his part when he saw I was goin' to take it to court.
	"I've sharecropped mostly up and down Bynum road. I said they pushed me slam off the other end; so I came to this end to start down again I reckon. Le'me tell you one thing: it don't pay to mess with your kinfolks. I sharecropped twice with Uncle Dan'l Taylor. It didn't work. He was mean, if he was my uncle. Now, Uncle Kinchen was a goo man. Many a time he took a dollar out'n his pocket and give it to me. 
	"I was put out in the road one time. I was rentin' land with Romie Taylor, a cousin, then. I moved to his old home place and fixed it up, repaired the house and barn, cleaned up ditches, got the land in good shape -- Why, I worked hard as a dog rivin' slabs to cover the house. A nigger come along and offered me 75 more 'n I was payin' and got the place. I had leased it for five years, by word of mouth. Where I made my mistake, to trust him. Romie told me to move into a shack wa'n't fittin' for niggers to live in, after I'd improved his place more'n seventy five dollars' worth. I told him I wa'n't a-goin' to do it. Then he give me orders to get out. The law was in his favor. I asked a feller knowed law, and he said I'd have to move in seven days after gettin' the movin' orders. I was then three days to Christmas. I had to find a place as quick as I could. A landlord can give you orders in March, and out you go. The law's with 'em." 
	Mrs. Taylor rises from her corner to lay Janice at the foot of the bed. With an old shawl she carefully covers the child and then returns to the fire-place. Her arms look very empty indeed.
	Mr. Taylor has put aside his box and brush and continues his musing over landlords. "A one-horse man has to live in a shack. If you won't, niggers will. Landlords won't rent money for now'days. They say there's no money in sharecroppin', but why won't they rent for money then? They'd be sure makin' that much. I'll tell you how come: on shares they can work it to their own advantage. They're keeping' the books, and you're in the dark. If you was to rent for a sum o' money you'd be too independent; they couldn't get you between their fingers and pinch you. 
	"The trouble with me, I never went to school a day in my life. Time I was big enough to reach the plow handles they had me in the field. I ain't never been able to keep up with my business, and she didn't know enough to help me." 
	"No," the wife interrupted, "I went to school mighty little bit myself. I could read and write a little when I started to Mrs. Stancell's class, but that was all." 
	"So they took advantage of me," she continued. "Sometimes the landlord furnished the money to run me a year and charge me such high in-trust when settlement time come there wa'n't nothin' left for me, accordin' to his figures. Sometimes the landlord would stand for my account at the store, and he'd take a crop lien and I couldn't touch a thing till he was paid off. He'd get his, don't care how short the crop was. The rule is for the landlord to furnish the team and you pay half the fertilize; when you make that bargain with him, he runs the fertilize up till you pay half his half. If you furnish the team they pay the fertilize, and you pay the labor. Peter Spencer's about the only one round here that pays half to get the peanuts picked off. Then the rental check. I never got but one in my life. That was when I lived with Ben Ricks down at Conway."
	"The reason for that, Papa, is because you don't get one year's rental check till the next year. By that time you'd done move to another place, and so you'd miss it." 
	"No, that ain't it, Lena May. When the landlord signs up, he signs the sharecropper as his hired hand that works by the month; instead of sharecropper he puts me down as a hireling. So the rental check goes to him, and he uses it for self." 
	"Mr. Spencer says you'll get he rental check on your peas this year."
	"I rather see it than hear about it. Oh, yes, I reckon Peter's as good as his word. He's kin to me, but it's distant. He's as good as any I ever had. They'd use good guns and bad uns. They're good as men, but when it comes to landlords they look out for self. I've had one woman landlord; she treated me all right." 
	Lena May it's over with a gesture of tenderness to fasten Carter's wrist-band that is hanging loose. "The button's off," he explains, as he continues. "I asked for old age pension, but never heard nothin' from it. Walter Smith's wife got old age pension; he owns his own farm. I ain't never owned a foot o' land. Relief ain't handed out right nohow. Some gets relief that's ridin' round in cars." 
	"There's a woman down the road that really needs some help. She's worse off than we are. I wish they'd help her." Lena explains conditions at a neighbor's house. "I've thought about writin' President Roosevelt. Folks have written him and got help."
	"Roosevelt's all right," Carter is enthusiastic now. "What's wrong ain't his wishes. He means good. He's tried to help the pore class o' folks."
	"He's got a good heart," Mrs. Taylor observes thoughtfully. "We wouldn't want no great sight. If we just had a little house close to a church --"
	"If I could get a job tendin' to stock somewhere -- I don't mind gettin' up soon and feedin' and waterin' the stock; it would just suit me exactly to mess with animals."
	Lena May realizes the president himself would not read her letter. "But somebody close to him would. He'd answer or have it done." 
	"Yeh, Roosevelt's all right. We all helped put him in. I hope they'll keep that other thing -- who is it, Lena May?
	"Hoover?"
	"Yeh, Hoover. He promised to put folks on their feed, and he did -- a-walkin'." 
	"The trouble with folks like us," Lena sums up their case, "is that we don't have no money for anything. We have to live hand to mouth. No car, no radio, no milk or fruit or cereals six months to the year, no newspapers -- I hoped I'd make enough to give Mama and Papa 'The Jackson News' for a Christmas present; not a single paper comes here."
	"It would be company, nights. But I can't see to read much noway. My eyes runs water all the time. His, too."
	That has been evident; both have been wiping their eyes frequently.
	"They've ruined their eyes tryin' to see out of ten and twenty five cent glasses from the ten-cent store," Lena May explains. 
	Mrs. Taylor reaches to the mantel for her current glasses. "This here's a pair o' fifty cent ones. Try 'em on and see if you can see out of 'em." 
	The fifty cent glasses are not very clear, though print is magnified. Several copies of old magazines, Time and McCall's, are offered at this point. Carter picks up an issue of Time and begins to turn the pages.
	"My eyes is all right; my arms is just too short." He holds the paper as far as his arms will reach. "I like to look at pictures if I can't read." 
	"That," he is told, "is a picture of President Roosevelt." He studies Time's picture of the President and Mrs. Roosevelt in a car with Mayor LaGuardia. 
	"Fat old scound'el, ain't he?" His tone is full of affection. He is gazing straight at LaGuardia.
	At the suggestion that the Taylors are tired and no doubt want to go to bed, Mrs. Taylor speaks quickly, pleadingly, as she leans forward: "Don't go. I wish you'd stay all night. I like you."
	"She don't have no comp'ny often. It's treat to her for you all to set and talk. We don't get nowhere neither. Me and her took a trip to Washington a few years ago. The child'en gave us the trip."
	"We shore did have a good time."
	"Mama's never been to a talkie. She went a few times during silent pictures, when we lived near Battleboro."
	"My pleasure's huntin' and fishin'. I hunt right smart close around the house, in the edge of the woods. I'm afraid to leave her far. She's afraid unless I'm in callin' distance."
	"We don't like for her to stay by herself since she was at Williamsburg." Lena speaks significantly.
	"I use to deer hunt. A deer passed right across my field the other day, but I didn't have my gun."
	"Elmo went off on a deer hunt with a new shirt on and let the deer pass right by him. Course they cut his shirt-tail off. Elmo said he bet he didn't wear a new shirt on a deer-hunt no more." On Lena May's words, the father and mother smile for the first time.
	"Deer meat's fine," Mrs. Taylor assures her audience. "I use to pare-boil it and stew it down real tender and then add red pepper and vinegar. It's good steaked too. I reckon I've cooked more wild meat than any woman in Northampton County."
	"I was always called a good shot, not as good as Uncle Kinchen. He was the best hand a-callin' turkeys I ever see. He'd fix him a blind in the woods and fool the turkeys to death. He never missed killin' him a turkey for Thanksgiving and Christmas. I ain't killed but seventy squirrels this year. 
	"We've eat squirrel meat every way you can name -- barbecued, fried, stewed, smothered, muddled." 
	"Folks use to enjoy life better'n they do now. They had more time then. Now everything's on wheels. Young folks got to hop on a car and run all over the country. They used to be a parlor room where girls entertained their young men comp'ny. All they want now is an automobile. Our girls went out like the rest, but it was against our will."
	"We use to set in the parlor room and play games and sing. My brother and sister could play all kinds o' musical instruments. I can play a harp good as anybody -- anything you mint (mind) to call for."
	The only song, though, that she can call to mind she does not get very far with.
	"'Tis the old time 'ligion, 'tis the old time 'ligion,
	'Tis the old time 'ligion --"
	"That's not a old song, Mama. They sing that now. You hear it over the radio."
	"We sung it a lot back then. We young folks met around each other houses and sung, and played, and had corn-shuckin'! We was raised in Southampton County. I've heard 'em tell about Nat Turner's risin' many a time. I've been in old Nat's cave," Carter declares. "I come across it a-huntin', and when they told me it was where old Nat hid out till they caught him I went in there. 
	"Last time we grown folks had any fun was at the minstrel show the Galatia neighborhood put on at a Seaboard school. I reckon you saw me in it, but you didn't know me. I dressed up in Carter's old suit, and me and Willie Balmer danced. Folks said it was good." 
	"Best thing they had." 
	Me and him's been married thirty years. I'm a heap younger than him, twelve years younger. I fell in love with him the first time I ever saw him. It was at a pea-poppin'. I couldn't take my eyes off'n him, looked like."
	"I thought well of her too," Carter admits. 
	"He was ugly when I married him. See how I've improved him since I got him? Law, the girls he did have! He was always kickin' me, and I'd cry my eyes out. I've shed enough tears over him to wash my dress."
	"She got me though."
	"I've got a valentine he give me 'fore we was married, one of the prettiest you ever saw. It's there in that trunk."
	"Did you make it, Papa?"
	"No, my sister fixed it for me out'n two folded sheets of paper. She took scissors and cut it up into lace."
	"It's yellow now. I've had it over thirty years." 

