Another version of "Life on 'Happy Top'" can be found on pages l3548-l3564. 
January 17, 1939 
Mrs Lelia Bramblett (white) 
157 Chatooga Avenue 
Athens, Georgia 
Textile Worker 
S.B.H. 
LIFE ON 'HAPPY TOP' 
Mrs. Matthews' granddaughter answered my knock on the door. "Grandmother's not here," explained the vivacious young person of high school age. "She's always gone some place and doing something for somebody. Come in and sit down. I'm sure she'll be here in a minute. 
"I was studying out in the old barber shop and didn't hear you come up on the porch," she said, as we entered a well-furnished and very modern living room. News travels fast in the close knit life of mill villages, and it seemed remarkable to me that Mrs. Matthews learned so promptly that there was a visitor at her home. In just a few minutes after my arrival, she rushed in out of breath, adjusting her silver-rimmed spectacles. Braids of gray hair encircled her head. Her plump figure was enveloped in a print frock. Gray hose and black shoes completed her costume. 
"Well, I'll be swigared!" she exclaimed as she recognized me. "You did come, didn't you? Now, just keep your chair. T'aint no need to git up. Lemme git a dip of snuff, and I'll be with you, ready to talk. Now, lady, if you don't like my snuff, you needn't bother long, or me either, 'cause I'm going to dip my snuff, and when I dip, I gotta spit even if tne President of the United States should be looking at me." She winked her right eye, nodded her head vigorously, and concluded her declaration with the expression, "Thar you are, huh." I soon learned that this conclusion was her favored method of emphasizing statements. 
"So you did mean it, when you said you wanted to know my life history? Well, if I told you everything about me, it would be long and tiresome, I don't know nothing so interesting. To tell the truth, I've been through so much and so much has happened in these 61 years I've been living, that I've forgot a whole lot of what I did know. Ain't you cold? If you ain't you look like it, all humped over there writing. I wish I could write. I can do right good at reading. Lemme see how you spell my name. No, that ain't right. It's spelt with two t's. Heap of folks spells it with just one though. 
"I was born and raised out here at Princeton Factory. My mother never worked in the mill after she got married. She stayed home and kept house and raised her children. Pa made a dollar a day running the picker machine. Know what a picker machine is? Well, it's like this. You tear a bale of cotton up and put it in the picker, and it chews and cuts that cotton all to pieces. From that room where the picking machine was, it went on to the carding room, then to the spinners, and on to the weaving room whar they made it into cloth. 
"I was a little girl when ma and pa moved out to Whitehall for pa to work as picker in Old Man John White's mill. We never stayed out thar but about 6 months. We didn't much like that little 2-room log cabin we had to live in out thar. We slept in one room and cooked and at e in the other. Now, we had been living in a nice house at Princeton. At least it was counted a nice house in that day and time. There was two rooms on the first floor and one upstairs and they was all large rooms, and the walls was ceiled like the overhead - just like this room is now. That's more lasting than plastering and wallpaper, and it's warmer too, the wood ceiling is. 
"Did you ever see any brown sugar? I was crazy about that stuff when I was little . We kept it by the barrel at our house, but to me it won't nigh as good as Mrs. Riley's. She lived a little way up the road from us at Whitehall. Every morning I used to take my little tin cup and go to her house for brown sugar. It was the best stuff I ever tasted. I'll never forget the morning that I set out with my little cup and when I got in sight of Mrs. Riley's house, there was a man setting on her porch. To me that was the funniest thing, 'cause I hadn't never seed no man at her house before. She was a widow woman and thar won't nobody lived thar but her and her daughter, Willie. When I seed that a man was thar on her porch, I tucked my little tail and run for home as fast as I could go. Mrs. Riley saw me and called for me to come back but I didn't pay her no mind. I got home and ma asked me, 'what's the matter? Didn't you git no sugar?1 I told her the trouble and she said, 'T'aint nobody but her brother.' I went on back and got my sugar. 
"Not long after that we moved back to Princeton. I surely did miss Mrs, Riley then. One day I happened to go to Mrs. McClaskey's and she give me a tea cake. All the houses and yards had paling fences 'round 'em then. The McClaskeys lived right back of our house, and it was too much trouble to go all 'round the block ever time I wanted a tea cake, so I tore a paling off the back fence so I could slip through the crack and git to her house easy. I was crazy about her tea cakes and I thought she had the prettiest white tablecloth I ever seen. 
"Thar warn't but two of us children; me and my brother. He never worked in the mill 'til he was grown. Ma and pa moved to Winder, Georgy, after the Princeton Factory closed and my brother went to work there as a weaver. Ma and pa didn't stay long in Winder, not more'n a year. They moved back here and pa worked in the Southern mill. I ain't never seed my brother since he went way out to Ar-kan-sas about that time. He was out thar when ma died, and for all I know he may be dead now. When ma died, pa come to live with us and he died at our house. 
"The Lord I pray! I warn't but ten year old when I started to working in the cotton mill. You see, it was like this. I was going to school and my blamed old teacher tried to make me write with my right hand. Me, that was born left-handed!
It messed up my writing so bad that I just quit fooling with them school folks and went to work in the carding room at the mill for 30 a day. That was con-sidered big money for a kid to make them days, and children went to work then by the time they was kneehigh to a grasshopper. I ain't told you what a carding machine is, have I? Well, you feed the cotton in that big old machine and it comes out in the shape of a great big old lap. 
"Mr. Jim Lawrence was the boss and his brother, Mr. Fred, was the super (foreman) over the carding room. They was good bosses, and they looked after the welfare of their hands too. They saw to it that houses was in good con'-dition and fitten to live in. The size of the house depended on the size of the fam'ly you had. If your fam'ly was small you lived in a small house; a big fam'ly got a big house. You rented from the mill whar you worked and when you got your wages the rent was took out of your pay. 
"I'm here to tell you," she laughed, "the boss was my sweetheart. Me and his sister run together, and I went with him 'til he got married. The reason I didn't marry him was that I didn't want him. If this, what I'm telling you, ever comes out in a book, which of course I ain't expecting it to, but if it does, I sure hope Jim gits holt of it and reads every word of it, if he's living, and as far as I know, he is. Do you know, he fixed up his house and bought every stick of furniture before he was married. He come by our house the day before the wedding and took me to see his new home. He told me then and thar, that if I'd marry him that day the house would be mine. I told him no it wouldn't neither. He was a heap older'n me. Me and him had just been sort of claiming each other as sweethearts, 'cause I got a heap of fun out of making the other girls jealous. I used to be right lively about that kind of fun-making and taking other girls' beaux away from them, just to make 'em mad. 
"I was born on the first day of January, 1878, at one minute past 12 o'clock. Ma used to say that I was walking and talking by the time I was 9 months old and that I never stopped talking. They used to say that when I was a little thing I was never still as long as 5 minutes at one setting. Once Sid Lawrence told me if I'd sit still 5 minutes he'd give me a nickel. I sat still that long, but he never did gimme that nickel. A long time after I'd been married, he come back here to visit, and his brother, Fred, said to me, 'Lucy do you know who this is?' 
"No, who is it?' I asked. 
"'It's Sid Lawrence, '" was the answer. 
"'Gimme that nickel you promised,' I demanded. 
"'Why, Lucy!' He laughed and laughed. 'Haven't you ever forgotten that?' "'No, and I never will,' I told him. 
"I called him my sweetheart when I was a little girl. He was a sight older'n me. When I saw him coming I used to hop up on our gatepost. When he come along he would lean over and kiss me and keep on going without missing a step . 
"Ma's pa worked in Princeton mill, but I don't know whether my grandma ever worked or not, for I don't recollect ever seeing either one of them. Ma said that her ma was an Irish woman that was just sixteen year old when she come to this country. She was a little bitty woman, ma said. Grandma and grandpa died when ma was just a little girl. They left four girls and two boys, and the oldest of 'em had to go to work in the mills to raise the least ones. The older ones were nearly 'bout grown when they come to Princeton. They was weavers and they got 12 1/2 a cut. They wove about four cuts a day and their wages averaged about 50 a day. You know how it is; some days they didn't have enough work to give every weaver four cuts, and other days they were so rushed that they had to speed up and weave more. 
"Would you believe it? My children calls me old fashioned cause I don't try to dress like they do, and talk proper. I don't care none. I tells 'em I can make rings all 'round 'em, when it comes to knowing how to work and do things. Why, do you know when I was young, girls used to wear draw's that they called bloomers, and we wore long dresses and cotton stockings then. 
"I can't say that health con-ditions in mills was any different back then from what they are now. Of course, there warn't no hospitals and no health clinics. Doctors warn't up on their profession then like they are now, and when mill hands got sick then they just went on and died like Joe's first wife. She was a spinner before she married Joe, and she was just sixteen year old on the day she died. She had to die because she couldn't give birth to her baby. Now those kind of things are all taken care of by doctors and hospitals. 
"After Joe's wife died, he went three year before he ever spoke to me. I ran over him one day in the mill, and we started going together reg'lar after that. We had to meet at his sister's house to do our courting for I warn't allowed to go with him. After a while we ran away and got married, and I kept on working in the mill for 6 months after my marriage. 
"I told you I stopped school 'cause they wanted me to write with my right hand. We never had no schoolhouse a  Princeton then, so the Methodist Church was whar we went to school. You had to pay a dollar a head for every kid in the school, and that money went for the teacher's salary. Thar warn't but one teacher at a time. Miss Savannah Wood was my first teacher, and Joe's father, Mr. Matthews, was my next teacher. Miss Brown was the last one I had. She never kept school in the church-house like the others. We went to her in a little old one-room shack. Yes, Miss Brown tried to make me write with my right hand. Me, that was as left-handed as a jack rabbit. Most of the teachers was women; they didn't scare me none, but you let that school bell ring and when Old Man Matthews made his appearance I'd begin to cry, I was 'fraid of that man as a bear. Then the Smith boys come to Princeton to set up a night school. I went one night and they wouldn't let me use my left hand, so I didn't go back. I ain't ashamed of my reading, but when it comes to writing, 'bout all I can do is write my name. 
"The comp'ny had a store where the hands went 'bout once a week for rations and the bill was took outta their pay tickets. We was paid off just once every four weeks. 
"It never took much to live on then. Eggs was 10 a dozen, butter 10 a pound, milk 5 gallon, fat back 4 to 5 a pound, and chickens was 10 to 15 apiece. Flour was mighty cheap too. Ma kept her own cow, hogs, chickens, and garden. They never knowed what con-veniences was then, such as 'lectric lights and running water, and gas to cook with. Waterworks was unheard of in mill villages. Thar warn't no such things as restrictions as to how close the hog pen could be to the house, and things like that. It was just like living in the country. 
"I was sixty-one year old my last birthday, and I ain't never been out of Georgy but once in my life . My daughter was living in South Ca'lina and they sent me word from thar to come at once, that she was dying. I hustled over thar to see her, and she lived for just a few hours after I got to 'er. I brought her children home with me and raised 'em. They are grown and married now. 
"When I was on that train going to see my daughter, I saw my first 'lectric lights. I didn't act quite as bad as Aunt Nancy and Uncle Josh. We used to have graphaphone records about Aunt Nancy and Uncle Josh and the way they done, and the things they said was something to listen to. I used to love to play them old records, but I just despise a radio. 
Mrs. Matthews' daughter, Jean, came to the door. "Supper's ready," she announced. 
My hostess looked at the clock. "Well, I'll be?" she queried. "I've been talking the whole blessed afternoon and I'm not finished yet. I'm sure you're plumb tuckered out, doing all that writing, and I know I'm tired of talking."
May I come back early 'tomorrow morning? I asked. 
"Sure! Sure!" she replied, "I want you to."
The next morning I was ushered into her immaculate bedroom. A gray tabby cat snuggled against a gay green frog pillow on the bed was sleeping peacefully. 
Mrs. Matthews greeted me with a cheerful "Howdy!" She drew up a chair. "Here, take off your hat and coat and hang 'em on that chair by the fire so they'll dry while we talk, and here's another chair for you to set on. My, but it has rained lots since you were here."
"Let's see! Where did I leave off yesterday? Oh, yes! I'd just finished telling you about my trip to Ca'lina . 
"Since you left I've been thinking lots about me and Joe, and our young days. I'll never forget one week end when ma and pa went out in the country to spend the night. I warn't nothing but a child then. A orphan girl, named Edna, that ma took to raise, my cousin, Rose, and me decided that the three of us would have a dumb supper. I don't believe we fixed nothing but bread and meat, but it's been so long it's hard to remember every little thing. Anyway, we never spoke a word all through that supper. It's a wonder I didn't, for I was such a talker. Them girls never liked me much for I was so bad about telling on 'em. About eight o'clock John Wheeler and Joe Matthews come in the back door. We had got our table ready, and all three of us was setting by the fireplace when the boys walked in. Remember, we hadn't spoke one word since we started fixing that supper. I don't know why they went in our back door unless they just saw the light in the kitchen and wanted to know what was going on there at that time of the night. They must have realized what we were trying to do, for they never said a word neither. Joe first set down at the plate Rose had fixed, and then he changed and set down at mine. Me and Rose had fixed our plates on the back side of the table, and Edna had put hers on the front side. Them boys warn't saying a word. I held in just as long as I could and then I asked 'em, 'What did you come here for? ' 'Because we wanted to,' they said and stood thar grinning. I didn't like Joe a bit then, so I run 'em off home. Before long Edna and John got married. He became a Baptist preacher. Pretty soon Joe and Rose married, and just like I told you before, she didn't live but a year. Three years after that me and him got married. 
"In those days, hoop dresses and bustles were a mighty go. I was married in a dove-colored dress that had dove-colored ribbons for trimming. I say silk? Why, we didn't know what silk dresses was them days. They was for the rich. When a girl I ran with was going to git married, we decided to borrow clothes from two girls that hadn't been married but a few days. 'What are you going to do with 'em?' they asked us, when we went to borrow the things, but we wouldn't tell 'em. They lent us every single thing they was married in: dresses, undercoats, draw's, shoes and stockings, and even to their hats and gloves. Nellie, the girl that was gitting married, said it would bring her good luck if we didn't tell what we was borrowing 'em for. Next day we marched down to the Justice of the Peace for her to git married. On the way down there I had a fuss with the boy I was to stand up with - we were already on the outs with each other a little bit anyhow - when we got thar I wouldn't stand up with him. 
"The first 10 years after me and Joe got married we lived at Princeton. Three of our children was born thar, and the other three over here nigh the Southern Mill. Fast as they got big enough to work all of 'em started in here at the mill as weavers. They made a coarse white cloth here then. I don't know what it was used for. All of it was shipped off up north. 
"We moved to the Southern Mill after Princeton Mill shut down, and here we've been ever since . Joe made $1 a day when we moved over here. There was a right smart difference in the way things was run in the Southern Mill and at Princeton Factory. For one thing, they had more to do with over here. When we first moved to this place thar wern't a store, church or much of anything on this hill, just a mighty few houses that some of the hands lived in. We had to go way over on Prince Avenue to buy our rations, so we bought up enough to last 2 weeks at a time. Rations warn't nigh so high as they are now. Every now and then the mill would build a new house. I've seen 'em go up; now they're going down. 
"In them days the bosses were mighty good about letting the hands have what they needed when they was sick. They could pay it back when they got well enough to work again. If a mill fam'ly warn't able to bury its dead, the boss let 'em have the money and let 'em pay it back when they could."
A man in work clothes looked in the door. "Good morning," he said, "Where's Jean?" 
"She's gone to take Ruth to the nursery school," Mrs. Matthews answered, and she continued, "Look here, make yourself useful. Make a fire in the stove. It's 'most nigh time for Jean to cook dinner." He disappeared in the direction of the kitchen and we soon heard the rattle of the stove. Then Mrs. Matthews' daughter, Jean, returned. Like her mother, she is stout. She removed her coat and revealed a print dress and black sweater. Her shoes were worn without hose. When she had shaken the water from her coat, and filled her mouth with snuff, she asked, "Mamma, did you give the lady some of that candy I made?" Her mother replied, "No, bring us some. It's pow'ful hard, but it sure tastes good." Jean left the room and soon returned with a lump of white candy about the size of a goose egg and handed it to me. I offered it to Mrs. Matthews. "You break it up," she said. "I don't want to put my hands on it before you. Anyway, I don't know what these sores might be. 
"Jean, you better git to work on that dinner. " Her mother directed. "What are you going to cook? Pinto beans?"
"No'm," answered Jean, "I bought a bunch of the prettiest collards you ever seen when I passed the store just now. I think I'll cook them and some dried butterbeans." 
As Jean retired from the scene, her mother's mind turned to other subjects. 
"Yes," she began, "We are living in a new day now. About 25 year ago, we organized a club in this community that we called the "Friendly Neighbors Club." Its object is to help them that can't help themselves. We look after the sick, buy coal, food, clothing, and medicines. Part of our money is raised by having suppers and all sorts of neighborhood socials, and we do a lot of quilting and sell the quilts. We are planning a minstrel show at our clubhouse tonight. The admission price is only 10 and 20. Don't you think that is a very liberty price?" "Bill Belan is putting on that show," she continued. "And every blooming time he comes here it rains. Just look at them wet coats of yours and Jeans? Bill brings his own cast. You see we don't have enough young folks with talent in this community to put on a dog fight. 
"This club of ours meets in an old schoolhouse, that has become a sort of gathering place for the whole village. The girls have a nice glee club that meets there, and let me tell you it' s con-ducted by a woman that knows how. She's that Miss Lila Crawley you read so much about in the papers.
"Thar was so many children 'round here with no place to play but the streets, and nothing to do, so we went to the mill bosses and got them to arrange for a playground around the clubhouse. Now we have a nice nursery for the smaller ones to be looked after from nine to eleven-thirty every morning, and the older ones have the playground in the afternoon, and it's arranged so they can play inside on bad days. You never heard of so many indoor games. The WPA helps with this and pays the people that are in charge of it. 
"When Miss Johnson - I've done plum forgot her first name - started our club she was living over here, and she went to every woman in this village. Them that wanted to join and attend reg'lar was put on one list, and the ones that could join and couldn't go much was put on the honor'y list . The dues ain't but 10 a month. 
"Joe got so tired of working in the mill, he decided to change jobs. That was long before the mill shut down. He worked on the police force awhile and then he opened a barber shop right out here by the side of our house and did a good business. After the mill closed he opened his shop downtown as there was not enough business in the village to keep a shop open here, and he's been downtown ever since. 
"We have been in this house for 17 year. We bought it the day Louis, my boy, was sixteen. Once when I went to the door there stood a darkey. He said, 'Miss don't think anything about me standing here. The last time I was along here, where this house stands was a cotton field. I've picked cotton and pulled fodder and corn here many a day long before there ever was a railroad run through this place. The only house standing in this section then was Mrs. Wood's.'
"Right across the railroad tracks yonder is where they used to have the Holiness meetings. I was on my way to one of them meetings one night and a boy standing on the railroad bridge hollered at me. 
"'Mrs. Matthews, whar you going?' he asked.
"'To the Holiness meeting,' I said.
"'To git happy?' he wanted to know.
"'Yes, ' I answered him. 'We'll git happy and stay all night.' From that time on, this community was called 'Happy Top.' It was a kind of rough place after it started building up so fast, and all kinds of people began moving in here to live, and with them came the drinking and cutting up. They was kind-hearted in their way, but rough as could be. 
"The mill shut down and folks had to leave. House after house has rotted down. Now, you take that apartment they tore down on Park Avenue lately. That was a nice building. Just one fam'ly after another lived in it , but they never knowed or cared about looking after it, and they soon tore it to pieces. At one time the rooms there rented for 25 each. Just think, 25 for the use of a room a whole month! A nice room, at that. 
"The mill has never done no good since everything went up so high during the World War. Why, I made as much as $35 a week thar during that war, but they don't pay no such wages as that no more."
A young girl, clad in a gay print dress, a sweater draped over her head to keep off the rain, came in wearing a pair of knee-high boots. She walked over to the fire without greeting, invita-tion, or introduction, spat a mouthful of snuff into the coals, and turning to me asked, "What are you doing here? Taking the census?" 
"No," snapped my hostess, "We're going in the movies. Don't you think I'll make a swell actress?" 
It was evident that Mrs. Matthews did not want her guest to learn the purpose of my presence there with pencil and note pad, and so I obeyed her wink, and let her make all replies. After a number of futile questions, the caller remarked: 
"Well, I reckon my feet's dry enough now. Can I use your phone?" 
"Yes," snapped Mrs. Matthews, "But be sure you don't track no mud in thar to mess up Mary Joe's room. She'll bless you out sure." 
When we were alone again Mrs. Matthews said with a triumphant grin, "Ain't it funny how some folks love to hang around just to find out what ain't none of their business? I'm glad you let me do the talking. I knowed how to handle that one." 
"Yes," she said as we picked up the threads of the interview, "times have sure changed something terrible, 'specially clothes. It used to take from 5 to 10 yards of cloth to make a dress. Now they make a dress for a grown woman out of as little as three yards. 
"Neighbors have changed too. Everybody used to be neighborly, helping them that couldn't help themselves. Now unless you are organized and belong to some sort of club, nobody pays any attention to whether you're starving, half-clothed, or sick. They don't mix and mingle and swap jokes like they used to. 
"It used to be we had to go to church, 'cause we didn't have no whar else to go. I had to set on the front row of seats when I was a child, and when the old women got to shouting and running around, I had to crawl up on the bench with my feet, to keep 'em off my toes. I never wore no shoes to church then for all the little children went barefooted to church and Sunday School then.
"There warn't no such thing as free schooling in my day. They say it's free now, but I don't agree with 'em. Heaps more children would be in school 'round here if they didn't have to pay so much for the use of books, pencils, paper, and who knows how many other things they thinks they have got to use in schools these days. Children warn't made to go to school in my day. That's why I could quit school and go to work. Them days children went to work in the mills by the time they was kneehigh to a duck. Now they ain't allowed to start to work 'til they're too old to learn how. When we weren't working in the mill, we was trying anything what would earn a little money. See them houses t'other side of the rail road tracks? I've picked cotton right whar they are standing many a time. 
"When we lived at Princeton, thar was an old darkey that used to come every Sunday morning to cook breakfast for us. When that coffee got to stinking in the kitchen it sure made me some hungry. When he finished washing up the breakfast dishes at my house, he put out to cook dinner for my sister-in-law, and I was right behind him. The eats that other folks cooks smells a heap better than what you cook yourself. Ain't it so?"
Jean came to the door. "Mamma," she asked, "are you going after Ruth or do you want me to go? Seems like to me you ought to have told the woman everything you know by this time."
"I could tell her a heap more if I didn't have to go after the baby, and I might as well get started for its 11:30 now." We started out in the rain. "You think these streets are bad now, but you just oughta seen 'em a few year ago," said Mrs. Matthews.
We arrived at the clubhouse. "Here's whar we part," she said. "I've enjoyed talking to you so much. Come back some time when you can spend a whole day with me. If what I told you gits into print I sure do want to buy one of them books. " 
