May 6, 1940,
Judge Miles W. Lewis,
3d Floor Duval County
Courthouse,
Jacksonville, Florida.
Personal Interview.
Rose Shepherd, writer.
ABRAM BELLAMY, FLORIDA PIONEER.
"My other great-grandfather was Abram Bellamy. He died before he had reached the age of forty, and was buried at monticello, Florida, on September 23, 1839. The following is an extract from a nasonic address delivered at his funeral by Judos D. Westcott, Jr.:
""Abram Bellamy was born at Waccamaw, Georgetown District, South Carolina, August 10, 1800, and died in Jefferson Country Florida August 15, 1839. He received his education chiefly in the academy of Dr. Waddel at Wilmington, Abbeville Distract, South California.
""He commended the study of law junior the direction of Joseph Alston, former Governor of South Carolina, and finished it in the office of Mr. Simmons, a distinguished lawyer at Charleston. He was admitted to the her at Charleston in 1821, and the <text not clear> succeeding year to East Florida, to which his <text not clear> family had removed a short time previous. He was shortly after admitted to practice at the bar and pursued his profession at St. Augustine and was also chosen the fill the responsible station of chief clerk of the Legislative council of the Territory. He was subsequently appointed, first by President Monroe, and reappointed by President Adams upon the recommendation of a large number of citizens of East Florida, to a seat in that body at the session of 1827-28, and again chosen as the chief clerk of the council.
""During the year 1827 he removed with his a family and that of his father to middle Florida. In the years 1829, 1831, 1832, and 1835 he was elected by the people to the Legislative Council and in 1829 and 1832 he was chosen its President.
""For several years of those mentioned he was the only representative of the Countries of Jefferson, Madison, and Humilton, then composing and election district, and on the sub-division of the district, he was elected to represent Jefferson. In 1838 he was chosen by a large vote as Delegate to the St. Joseph Convention, to for a constitution for the state of Florida, and of which Assembly he was one of the most talented, prominent, useful, and influential members.
""He was married St. Augustine in 1826 to Miss Eliza A. Williams of that city, (step-daughter of General Joseph M. Hernandez) whom he has left with one son, Burton Bellamy, and five daughters to deplore his loss."""
From an old newspaper, no data, and unidentified:
""This sure Abram Bellamy who was President of the previous Legislative Council was an active, intelligent gentleman of pledging address <text not clear> one time he was secretary of legation at the court of Versailles, but his extensive traveling and the charm of the most seductive society in Europe did not prevent him from choosing the life of a frontiersman.""
Another clipping: ""The first Jacksonville lawyer was Abraham Bellamy, son of Commissioner Bellamy, who built an office hour his father's house and led the way for a long and illustrious line of successors whose fame has gone to the ends of the <text not clear>with that or the city's generous hosts,""
"William Bellamy, brother of Abram Bellamy was appointed by the Governor of the Territory of Florida to convey to Washington City the papers necessary "to raise Florida to statehood.
"The progenitor of the Bellamy family in America was from Bellamy, an Englishman by birth, who came to the vicinity of what is now Charleston, South Carolina, in 1665 and was associated with sir John Yoamans in colonizing the province of South Carolina. Before coming to the South Carolina he had spent some time <text not clear> in Plymouth Colony in Massachusetts, and later or, the Island of Barbadoes. He was a man of wealth and consequence and left a son, John Bellamy, born in London about 1690. He too, Came to South Carolina and settled on the Santee River were he was an extensive planter, his wealth consisting of land, slaves, and shipping, He, too, left a son, John Bellamy, born in 1720 hour Back in Prince George's Parish in 1760. Another son was Abram Bellamy some years, younger than his brother, who removed to Florida a. out the year 1819, before Florida was admitted to the Union, and participated in the Spanish war under General Andrew Jackson.
"Abram Bellamy was an accomplished civil engineer and laid out the city of Jacksonville in Florida, the city being <text not clear> luke chief. He took with him his son John, also a civil engineer.
"John was one of the first commissioners of Jacksonville, and foreman of the first Grand Jury in that city. Later he was received from the United States Government $30,000,000 in gold for cutting the road from Tallahassee to St. Augustine, known as the St. Augustine Road.
"In 1827, Abram Bellamy moved to Jefferson country Florida with his family, two sons -- John and Abram -- and three daughters) who lived and died in that county.
""The following families are the descendants of the Bellamys; Turnbull, Eppes, Parkhill, Mays, Lamar, Lewie, walkar, scott, Donham, and Willie.
"This family was expelled with other Huguenots from <text not clear> after the Ediet of Nantes, and moved to Holland. Later from Bellamy settled in London and was there known as one of the gentry. Sir John Yoamans and other colonists, among them John Eilleen, were grunted the land around Charleston in 1665 directly by the crown.
"In old letters this name is spelled Bollamio."
