2918 Gravier St.
Theodore Bricks
Interviewed 3/8/39
Submitted 3/17/39
"RELIGION IN DE DREAMS."
"Son, Ah aint so well, Ah got a heap of sumpin' hurtin' me. When Ah walk too much mah side hurt me, when Ah sit down too much mah back hurt me. Ah'm jest hurtin', thats all." This is Samuel Jenkins talking, and he likes to talk. Somehow, when he talks too much nothing hurts him.
Samuel is seventy-six years old. He was born in Algiers or "somewhar over that way." His friends call him Sam for short. He is a six footer of black color and knappy hair; Sam has lots of personality and lots of wisdom. "Its mah wisdom that keeps me goin," he states, grinning and bowing like a stage comedian receiving an applause.
"It was a funny thing how Ah got religion," Sam says. "Ah went along a long time. Ah wasn't studyin' er bout de Lawd. In dem days Ah was raisin plenty kane. Ah was young den, used to try de wimmens. Can't try dem now cause mah rheumatism aint goin' let me do it. Ah keeps thinkin' but can't seem to do no mo'. When Ah sits down and think over days when Ah was younger and used to gyrate, wimmens Ah gits mah kicks. Boy, Ah was a mess! Shucks, Ah aint had no time to pray den. Sho, Ah used to hyar people talkin' er bout de Lawd, used to hyar dem sayin' dat dey saw de Lawd and He told dem so and so. Aint nobody told me no so and so den; so Ah went right along. Jest lak Ah'm tellin' you Ah used to be a mess! What Ah had to offer? Man, Ah had appeal, dats what. Aint you never hyar people say dey had appeal? Well, dats what Ah had. Ah used to be a sharp lookin' dude jest lak you see me. When Ah walked down de street everybody looked around. You ever hyared people say when de wagon comes everybody goes? Well, Ah was de wagon...and everybody went. On a Saturday nite Ah used to walk into dem jints and whupped up a breeze, used to make wimmens jump naked. Ah don't mean jump naked Ah mean kick up a breeze, you know. Paid de pinana player fifty cents and let him beat on his box till somebody hit de floor. Man, you should er seen dem wimmens dance. Used to do de Eagle Hock. One old broad used to stick her BUTT so high in de air people thought it was a lamp post. Man, dat gal was black but she sho had a twang. When she started dancin' all dem yallar wimmens could do nothin' but stop and look, Dey used to try and shake like Black Martha but dere wasn't nothin' doin', no indeed, Man, jest lak Ah'm tellin' you, Ah r'member one time when Gibb's Place was full of people, people on top of de pianano, people on top of de chairs, on de bar, everywaar. And everyone of dem people came to see Black Martha dance against Lulu White, she was a brownskin. Martha didn't lak brownskin wimmens no how. I Used to say that dey wasn't colored people, dey was Indians. Well, deye was so many Indians over dere you couldn't tell de difference. Well, anyhow neither one of dem started dancin' till de music got hot. Old Jack Anderson was beatin' on de pianano, Tom Vield was on de drums and Percy Gates was on de banjo. We used to call Percy plug ugly. He was some ugly. He won the ugly man contest we put on one time, and his face was shaped lak a plug, thats why we called him plug ugly, Ha-he-ha-he! His old lady was ugly too. We used to call her Pigeon cause she had pigeon toes and ears lak a pigeon nose. She was black too.
"Whenever Ah talks er bout dem people Ah thinks about Hazel Brown. Now, dat was some woman. When she walked frontward she looked lak she was walk-in' backwards. You couldn't tell de difference. If it hadn't been for her face dere was no way to tell de difference. Why? Man, Hazel was shaped in de front lak she was shaped in de back. She had a BUTT that was big and she had a Bust that was big. One was as big as de other. When she'd BUTT she'd BUST and when she'd BUST she'd BUTT, So dere. Has you ever been on de flyin' horsos? Well, ridin' Hazel was jest lak ridin' de flyin' horses. You hyared talkin' er bout Sunshine Money makin' de loop de loop? Thats de way you went when you rode Hazel!" Sam is doing a lot of "jump-talking;" now he is speaking about something else! "Take Jim Jenkins, mah cousin. What did he do when Sam Boyer bet him five dollars that he couldn't drink two quarts of whiskey. He got him a a quart bottle of olive oil and drank that on down. Ha-he-ha! Man, that oil messed er round and did the wrong thing. When that oil got finished with Sam he couldn't drink a drop of that whiskey, Ha! It was a long time b'fo he could drink too. That oil was workin', and workin' real fast. Everytime you looked er round Sam was er goin'. He aint fooled wid no oil since that time neither.
"Gittin' back to Black Martha. Black Martha would do a thing till she had done drunk two full quarts. Ah mean full quarts. That gal didn't drip a drop. When she finished each drip she was ready to drop another drip. Anyhow, she drank her belly and her mind full. Then the music got to playin' and she got to dancin'. She was doin' the Eagle Rook and the Belly Twister, Everytime she twisted her belly some poor man went wrong. Did Ah go wrong? Man, git away from hyar! Anyhow, she was jest er dancin' and movin' er round the floor. Never-mind Alice said 'Shake that thing' and Black Martha got down to the floor and whizzed herself. Ah was standin' right over her, jest lak Ah'm sayin', standin'nright over her. Boy, that was yars ago. That was when the mules was pullin the street ears. Well, jest lak Ah'm tellin' you. We was all in this place havin' a good time, lookin' at them fool wimmens dance and shake themselfs. We was drinkin' too, jest lak Ah'm tellin' you. When Black Martha finished her dancin' she went on upstairs wid a man. Shucks dere wasn't no contest. Lulu couldn't dance wid Black Martha. Lulu was a-sweatin' and beckin' and Black Martha was cool as Apple Cider. She wasn't even sweatin' or nuthin'. De railroads mens used to sing her dis song:
Black Martha, is cool and cold
Black Martha, is cool and cold
Her skin is black but her butt is gold.
When you see Martha comin' along
Ah say when you see Martha comin' along
Her meat is rockin' and she's smellin' strong.
Dere is sumpin' er bout Martha Ah can't stand
Black gal, Martha, Ah can't understand
Why she's got so many diffrent mens.
If yo' bottle is full and yo' pipe is dry
If yo' bottle is ful and yo' pipe is dry
Be sho and git near Black Martha's thighs.
Black Martha can dance, can shake too
Ah say, Martha can dance and shake too
If you want to git well let her put her stuff on you.
Went down to de pool room saw what the boys was doin'
Went down to see what de boys was dpin
But Martha was wid 'em, and dey all was screwing.'
"Everybody used to sing and dance that number. De guitar player used to be de furst one to start it. He'd git up on de chair and sing away. We was all singin' that number on de day Ah'm tellin' you er bout.
"Man, jest lak Ah'm tellin' you, that was a day. A day Ah'll never fo'git it. Ah's been a rascal. Messed wid all de wimmens in every town Ah got in. Even knocked down windows and pulled open doors to git to mah wimmens. But, man. My goodness! When de fun was goin' on and all of us was doin' all rite. De Sun was hot and de clouds was all pushed b'hind each other. And all of a sudden. A black man come in upon us. Ah can see him now. That man had on a black suit wid large white buttons. He was a kind of a funny fellow, too. His ears was long like his hands. Ah aint lyin' no! His eyes was small like his head, and his teeth was white like his buttons. His hair was ruft lak his skin. But he was smilin' like he had sumpin' up his sleeves. Its a good thing that man didn't come in when Black Martha was dancin'. Would he went too? No indeel Wait till you know why! Some of dem fellows don't know why yet.
"Some of de fellows had done left Black Martha and was sittin' er round playin' cards. Some of um was drinkin', and some of um was jest sittin' er round doln' nuthin'. That man, nobody knew his name, jest came in. Furst, he went to de bar and looked at de bar-tender, and den he walked er round de place ina circle like he was a flyin' mill or sumpin'. You see, Ah had done been all over Algiers and down, whar cut Off is now, and Ah had done been er round too. Ah aint never seen nuthin' lak that, and Ah aint never hyared of a man like this man. Wait till Ah tell you er bout him. He looked at me a long time, Man, is you crazy? Dere wasn't nobody who was goin' to mess wid dat man. Dats it, nobody paid him any mind at furst, jest let him be himself .He was himself too. Went to de gamblin' table and took a seat. Ah can't r'member what kind of a game the boys was playin' but dey was playin' cards. Now, Peter Woods was a' card player. That man could cheat and outbeat anybody playin' cards. He used to win all de money. Black Martha could play too. When that man sat down at de table and pulled out his money everybody sat down who had a dime. Black Martha sat next to him and tried to peek in his hand. She was playin' partners wid Pete. Wait till Ah tell you! The card game got on. People started comin' er round lookin'. Ahbwas standin' right whar Ah could see everything, even gave Black Martha money to bet. Ah wasn't missin' a thing. Ah figures that that man was new and dey was goin' to sho give him a good lickin'. But, wait till Ah tell you! Shucks, Ah told um don't worry when that man won two straight bets, and went on dancin' wid one of dem wimmens. Den, after a while, the man got losin', and he started callin' on de Lawd. Everybody laughed, and relaughed, but he kept callin on de Lawd. Now, that was sumpin' that aint nobody ever hyared er bout, people callin' on de Lawd in a gamblin' house. All of us was sinners. Dere wasn't a man in de house who, had been to church in ten yars, Ah'd dare say. Ah know Ah'd not been dere in that time, wasn't even thinkin' er bout it. Everybody else was de same way, Ah know. Well, the man kept callin' on de Lawd, and he'd win every bet. Somebody asked him was he a preacher and he wouldn't answer on that. Black Martha got to hollowin' and goin' on, screamin', 'Dis hyar man must be a preacher. He's callin' on de Lawd, and Ah been pushin' myself on him but he won't even wither. Sump in's wrong. Dere aint no gamblin' man who gambles and calls on de Lawd at de same time.' Den, we got to laughin'. agin'. Little Willie says, 'Let de brother call fo' anybody he wants to. That bastard done got mah money and Ah'm goin' start callin' on his black ass if he don't function wid some of that money.' Then de brother got mad, real mad, Fo' de furst time the brother was mad; his eyes come poppin'n out his head and his black ears got red. He was mad, cause he says, 'Now, fellows Ah'm hyar fo' a good time not trouble. Ah don't want it. Don't curse me or infront of me.' Den, Black Martha started laughin', she says, 'Dats funny. Don't curse! Well, you old black bastard!' And man, wid dat the man tunned er round and looked at Black Martha, jest looked at her, and she fell to de floor, in a faint. You could er hyared a pin drop. Nobody was sayin'muthin, not even me. Nobody was sayin' nuthin' neither! Nobody could move from de table, dey was sit struck. Ah was dumbfounded fo' ture. People was er round Black Martha wid salt, wid black pepper and all sorts of stuff, tryin' to bring her back. Nuthin' could do no good. The man wasn't payin' no tention to her. He was back at de table foolin' er round wid Cards. Den, all of a sudden, Black Martha came back! She was like somebody crazy; her eyes was rollin' like she rolls her belly. Her hair was standin' straight up, she was foamin' at de mouth, and cryin' a lil bit, Martha threw her a arms up and was stiff. Everybody rushed over to her and held her tight. But the man didn't pay any attention to her. That was funny. Den, Martha started lookin' er round lak she was lookin' fo' somebody. Her eyes was gittin' whiteer and whiter, she was makin' funny movements, like when you is in a daze or sumpin' Den, she started hollowin', 'whar is that man. Let me to that man! That man is a, Gawd sent man. He sent me a-dreamin'. Ah went straight to hebbin...to hebbin. Ah saw that man in hebbin. He came in jest liked he did when he.came in hyar. But, in hebbin he had a cigar in his mouth, and a red tie on. He was always talkin' wid Saint Peter, And dem Christian people say that Saint Peter is de man you got to do bisness wid. Ah dreampt that that man told Saint Peter er bout us...he called all our names. Mine was called from a long list of names. It was on a piece of white paper. Dem angels was all er round lookin' at dat list. Ah hyared one of dem angels say that he was goin' to take Beaulah Mite. Den dey startin' arguin' er bout me. One says no and one says yes. De no's won out and de yes's says dey was goin' to try and git me anyhow. That man was dere arguin' to; he was talkin' wid Saint Peter. Him and Saint Peter had dere heads t'gother. And Ah hyared, Ah don't need nobody to tell me nuthin', Ah hyared him say that he didn't want to harm nobody, but he didn't want nobody to curse him. Den, Saint Peter says it was all rite. And it was all rite. Cause bells startin' ringin', and horns startin' blowin'. It was like the end of time. Angels and Saints was comin' to me. Ah aint goin' lie, Ah didn't see de Lawd but Ah saw a big image comin' b'fo' me. It must er been Him cause dere was a large crowd er round Him. Ah saw that man er round him to. Somebody up dere was comin' to me, to put one of dem wings on me. But, Ah woke up. Lawd, Ah'm sho is glad Ah woke up!'
"And jest lak Ah'm tellin' you standin' hyar. That man came over to Black Martha and put his hand on her head and she was better den and dere, like nuthin' never even happened. He jest stood dere lookin' and starin' like he wanted to say sumpin' but he didn't want to say nuthin', Dere wasn't nuthin' fo' him to say. He'd done done his mission fine. Black Martha says, 'Ah don't know er bout y'all but Ah'm goin' git me some r'ligion somewhar from somebody.' Man, Ah saw all that. Ah stood right b'fo everybody and saw all dat. Maybe Black Martha had a funny way to git her r'ligion, but Ah was sho wid her. That man, we never did know his dissapeared out of dat place like this. He went right out! And de last thing he told me was, 'Fo' all you is worth, and all you can, git you'self some r'ligion.' And don't you know Mister that Ah got me some r'ligion too. Me and Black Mactha and all de rest of us who was dere and saw what happened got some r'ligion. We got our r'ligion rite away. Dere wasn't no need to waitin'. Cause Black Martha saw hebbin. And Ah know dat if dem aflgels had er took Black Martha dey was sho goin' to take me too. Den agin, if Black Martha had er gone she'd soon come and git me. Dat Ah know cause she sho did like me, and dat Ah know.
"Yes indeed! We all got r'ligion at the Mount Moriath Baptist Church t'gother. We all got in de water t'gether, told our stories and determination t'gether. It was a decorporation and a complete understandin' between us and de preacher. He said he had had a dream er bout dat man who came into de gamblin' place and he told him dat we was comin' Man, Ah don't know what you calls dat but Ah calls it r'ligion in de dream!"
