Carrboro, North Carolina
August 29, 1939
William O.Foster

Anthony Gibbs
Facing Ahead


" I don't know anything but mechanics," Anthony Gibbs told me.
We were standing in his garage on the main street in Carrboro , North Carolina.
His garage is an L-shaped hull, with a long room extending back from the street
and a shorter addition at the rear. The tin roof radiated the heat of the summer
sun and one window and two doo double doors offered the only ventillation.

"Have a seat over there on the keg. It's the best chair I've got. I've got some
idle time while my assistant finishes a job out in front. We don't keep chairs
here because if we did there would be a crowd of loafers here all the time. This
is a work place and not a social club. Don't get me wrong. You are a writin' man
and if you can help the rich and the eddicated folks to understand the condition
of us pore , ignorant fellows I ought to give you a little of my time. You are
the fust writin' man that ever steeped in here.

"I'm glad to howdy with my friends who drop in friendly like. And my customers
are ever more welcome. But the loafers around town hang out at the barber shops
and the filling-stations. Lots of my customers prefer to loaf in them places
while I am working on their cars. They get places to sit there and listen over
the radio or mingle with the crowds. Lots of my customers stay at the Standard
filling-station across the street and then they feel like they love to buy gas
over there. I'd rather they passed the time of day down at the barber-shop across
the rail road tracks because then man or I could sell them gas too. I bet you'll
think I'm Scotch but a feller has to live as well as let live. I'm really not very
greedy. I never hope to git rich. Don't want to be rich. Jist want enough to keep
off of poverty's row.* I've seen so much poverty around this town that I have to
think I might be dependent on charity when I can't work. I jist want my share of
the business.

"I'll bet you never seed a mechanic working like I do at the age of 64. But I'm
going strong and expect to work ten or fifteen years more. Factories won't hire
a man over forty and they takes every opportunity to ease out their older workers.
Don't see how anybody can fire me 'cause I owns my own business. My assistant is
only thirty but he says I can do as much work as he can."

"Tell me about your boyhood and family."

"Well, I wuz born on the farm a few miles from here. In them days there was a
lot of work to be done. Everybody had big families and my brothers were about
all sisters. There wuz twelve of us children and ten of them wuz girls. I came
along in the middle and my brother wuz the baby. They put me to work so early I
can't remember when I started. With all them girls on his hands Dad had to hustle
and make me hustle too.
" Did I go to school ? Wall, yes and no; mostly no. I remember Dad buying me a
slate and pencil and sending me along with the girls when I was six. I got
exposed to eddication along with measles, whoopin' cough, mumps, scarlet fever,
I got a little out of my sums but they tried to keep me off of that 'till I could
learn my a, b, c's and learn to read and spell. I tried a little but I wuzn't
interested. Did you ever try to do anything you wuzn't interested in ? It's a
uphill proposition to be sure. I'd play hooky and never show up most of the time.
Other days I'd stay out on the playground when they called 'books.' The teacher
made me stay in so's I'd study; and she told Dad too. Dad whipped me but nothin'
did no good and I can't read yet. I didn't seem to have no incline in the
direction of books. Don't know whether I could have learned or not but Miss
Venable, my old teacher, said says that anybody who could can tear a car down
and put it back together could learn books if he tried. But I figgers that if a
little boy is as sot against books as I wuz , his thinker is jist weak on that
side. O , I reckon I could er learned a little mite but it would likely have
taken me twice as long to pass a grade as it took others. I jist won't cut out
for a book-man. I think with my hand and fingers. My mind all runs to figgerin'
on how to make things go. Anyhow the teacher told my folks that they could lead
a horse to water but couldn't make him drink and that they had best take me home.
Dad tried to keep me there longer. Said he never learned readin' and writin' and
he was determined that all his kids would succeed where he failed. He said to
me, 'Boy, unless you can read what's in books and papers yore mind will be
pretty nigh a blank and if you don't go to school now you will be so big you'll
be ashamed to go; I'm a goin' to put some sense into yore head if I have to beat
it into you.' He meant it too. He pourd it on hard. But I jist got stiff and
laid down. His switch hurt but I couldn't cry. I jist lay there and shook. Ma
got so sorry for me she held Dad's arm and begged him to let up. Finally he
said, 'All right boy; you can quit school but I'll see that you regret it 'cause
 im a goin' to make you git up at four and work till dark, 'cept when it rains.
 You got to work in the house and out of the house. If you don't want to be a
 larnin' man you can be a workin' man. Boy, you'r goin' g to work and im tellin'
 you.'

" He made me work all right but he softened up a little after he cooled off and
after he saw how sleepy and tired I got. He let me sleep 'till sun up and I got
to play some in the afternoons. In fact Ma bossed me most of the time when I wuz
a little fellow. I helped her wash dished, churn and bring in wood. But as I
began to grow bigger Dad gradually put me to work with him. I did the chores,
then chopped and at twelve I began to plow.

"I began to handle tools a little at ten and by the time I was thirteen Dad saw
I had a gift. He encouraged me and got me a workshop and tools of different
kinds. When I was fifteen he said, 'Boy you hve paid for those tools over and
over by your use of 'em . I'm goin to let you do all the repair work on the
place, Hit'll save me money.'

"That jist suited me, I wuz strong and didn't mind field work but I was tickled
to death when I got into my shop. By the time I was eighteen, the neigbors wuz
bringin' me their work. I charged them jist what Dad would er paid for some one
to go to the field and work by the hour in my place. Dad said I should have
charged them twice as much but I told him that I wanted to keep 'em er comin' so
I could keep busy most of the time 'er doin' what I loved ter do.

"Finally" at last when I wuz twenty-one I told Dad I wuz goin' to strike out for
myself and keep all I made. I'd been givin' him all I made. He would take me
to town and git my clothes and he give me the small amount of spendin' money
that the young fellers usually had in them days. He said, "Boy, you is yore own
man now and you can do as you please. I know you will want to go to some town
where people can find you easy like. But this house is yore house as often as
you like to come back. I know you will do hard, honest work and charge fair.
Watch yore credit or they'll git you down shore as you live. Be a good boy.
Run with a good bunch. Go to church. You can't read yore Bible but take it along
to look at so it will remind you to pray. You don't know nothing, so don't talk
too much. Many a feller has kept himself out of trouble by jist sayin' nothing.
Mind yore own business and let others mind their'n . when it's time to talk
think straight and say it right out.'

Dad warn't no preacher but as I look back on it at sixty-four them was good
words of advice. I knew Dad as a level-headed, Christian man and I tried to
foller the path he pointed to. I knew he had his hands full even if he had
paid for his little farm. So when I started my shop in Chapel Hill, I did all
his work free. I jist charged him what I had to buy to fix his repairs. I also
helped him buy machinery and send him money. Dad and Mom is both dead now and
it warms me up a heap to remember that I acted to 'em like a true son.

"I had met Sarah Martin and had fallen desperately in love with her. We both
joined the Methodist church and I took her to every service 'cept prayer
meetin'. I wuz for marryin' right now but she said, "Anthony, you musn't rush
me off er my feet. I likes you a heap but my folks say we ought ter wait 'till
we knows eachother better.' I guess her folks must er looked me up or else they
saw I wuz a stiddy worker and wuz makin' good. Anyhow after six months they let
up and we got married.

"I've got eight children now. They came in stair-step fashion, one every year
and a half to two and a half years. You writin' people from Chapel Hill talk a
lot about spacin' of children and limiting the number; but we never knew there
was sich a critter as birth-control. We jist let nature take her course. It's
hard on the mothers and I reckon that's how come so many men married twice and
selected sich young wives. And havin' so many of them may possibly 'count for
the fact that so many children died when they were little. I guess though that
the doctors know more about children now. I'm shore there ain't so many second
marriages now. I'll bet there is more widows today than widdowers. I wuz lucky
in that my wife was strong. We lost one baby from dyptheria but the rest came
through and their mother is hale and hearty. My wife and I say we don't believe
in birth-control. Still we ain't urging our children to have babies every two
years; holdin' down the birth-rate seems to make our grand-children strong and
their families can do more. For a few than they can for fer a great crowd.
Our daughters and ours sons' wives certainly have an easier time and get more
out of life than wife did. I reckon I better let theses younger couples decide
for themselves how many children they want; I don't know much about it and they
don't ask my idea no how. My children and grand-children all live close enough
to come to see us often.

"We moved out here to Carrboro about the time the auto came along. It wuz
cheaper to live out here. I tore down the first model T Ford that come to these
 parts. I wuz crazy to get my hands on that new fangled machine. The boys told
 me I'd better not mess with something I couldn't handle. That made me boil. I
 said, 'Fellers , I am smart enough to repair and put together any machine that
 I take apart; I may not be smart enough to build 'em but I can repair anything
 that another man builds.' Well, I convinced 'em . I soon had that car running
 like a top.

"As cars grew more common, I gave up my general repair work and for years I've
been nothing but an automobile mechanic. My assistant keeps the books and I
know how to make change. I s'pose it seems queer to you white collar folks that
I prefer to be under this hot roof in a greasy pair of overalls to sitting in an
office. But there isn't any music as sweet to me as listenin' to my tools
hammering on some old stubborn car and forcing it ter run again. I've made good
here in a small way. I do a little credit business but most of 'em pays up so I
won't drop 'em . I own this business and four houses in Carrboro. I've stuck to
my anvil. My work stands up. And I don't overcharge. If it takes only ten
minutes to fix a car I don't charge a cent. I've got a lot of friends in
Carrboro and the whole county around here.

"I'm a plain man but I'm sober. I pay my debts. I go to church every service. I
attend most of the programs put on for the public like parent-teachers,
Children's Day in the churches, and graduatin' programs. I bought liberty bonds
in the Wold War and I may be buying them again in a few weeks if the war starts up.

"I'm a voter too. I'm a New Deal Democrat. I don't like the President's beer
parties but he's the people's friend. The banks are safe and it looks like he's
stopped depressions. He is trying to keep Europe from war and if it comes he'll
keep us out. I'm glad I'm an American. God has been good to me and I've just
gotten started. I'm not facing back. I'm looking forward to better days. "


Facing Ahead - N.C. - Good 180

Auto-mechanic, age 64 - owns his own shop - employs one assistant - Also owns
four houses - born on farm - refused at early age to go to school - never
learned to read - began to do repair work at ten - has never done anything else
- eigh children - doesn't believe in birth control - keeps up - seems to be a
good, right thinking American - believes in New Deal government - Doesn't want
to get rich - looking ahead.

Comment - Interesting for the light it sheds on educational matters - it
presents a good plea for vocational training for the boy who will not or can
not learn - 
