C.W. Stambaugh
Demorest, Georgia
February 1, 1939
W.B. Phillips
WOOD ENGRAVER IN PARADISE
Everybody in Demorest, Georgia, loves to tell what a remarkable town it is. "Demorest didn't just happen like other towns," they will assure you. "It was founded all at once, by a bunch of Yankees. Not another one like it in the state. Old Mr. Scarborough is the only one of the original settlers left. You'll find his house at the other end of the lake, just across the dam-bridge."
The cement walk, old and badly chipped, circled and twisted for more than half a mile around the edge of an artificial lake that covered a hundred acres of what had once been a fertile creek-bottom. The lake was muddy, but the opposite shore was beautiful with dense woods and laurel-thickets. At the upper end was a high railroad trestle of heavy timbers, across which a two-car passenger train rattled twice a day. The railroad was in bankruptcy, but nobody would give the train permission to stop running. At the lower end of the lake was a massive stone dam wide enough for the road to cross. There was a small steel bridge, with water roaring underneath. A faded sign pointed into a tangle of briers below the bridge and announced, "Our Famous Iron Spring."
The Scarborough house sat on a low hill overlooking the lake. It was the most citified-looking house in town, with flagstone walks and a front door of massive oak. It had been a typical house of the early nineties - but with the less of a few verandahs and the addition of a few gables, it had turned into Tudor English. The effect wasn't so bad.
Mr. Scarborough came to the door himself, and seated me comfortably by the big fireplace. He was tall and gaunt, but seemed remarkably vigorous for his eighty years. His clean-shaven face suggested the artist - but even more prominent was his look of shrewdness and kindly sagacity. 
"Yes, I've been here for fifty years - came in '89. Not much of the town's history that I haven't seen. Curious thing the way it all started. Sired by idealism on commercial greed. A happy hunting-ground for the righteous - while it lasted. It all grew out of the old Prohibition Party movement."
"Who was this man 'Demorest' they named the place for?"
"He was a lecturer and reformer. Ran a paper in New York called the Demorest Monthly. It had quite a vogue for a time, and in the presidential campaign of 1888 supported the Prohibition ticket. But the Prohibitionist polled fewer votes than they expected. The campaign was a flop. So they began looking for some other way of speeding the case.
"A number of these disgruntled reformers came down to Birmingham, Alabama, where a vigorous Northern colony already existed. And the notion came to them of founding a team which should be pure and uncorrupted from the start. They wanted to go to some wilderness and begin anew. They would put a clause in all the deeds forbidding liquor, gambling, and prostitution, under pain of losing the property. They determined to exclude Negroes, so all the old ladies could go to prayer meeting unmolested. Of course Yankees didn't have any use for servants. They were thrifty, and did their own work. To this day, you can't hire a Negro to stay here - they get to lonesome. Of course, the neighboring towns joke because the Yankees, who set the niggers free, won't give them the freedom of their town. 
"But to get back to the reformers. So far, they had neither a place nor a name. By some chance they ran across a man named A. J. Reynolds, a native of this region. He was a surveyor, looking for a job. 'I know the very spot,' Reynolds told them - 'up in the mountains of northeast Georgia!'
"So they fell for his plan, and he got the job of laying out the streets. They named the new town after the Prohibitionist editor, hoping he'd give them a lot of free advertising. And he did. Mr. Demorest even came down for a time. 
"When the first settlers arrived, the site of the town was a wilderness of creeks and woods. A little valley with a number of fine springs was made into a park - you can see it yet, but not much of its magic remains. On a hill above the springs stood the only house in the region - the old Rosignol place. It was a handsome manor house with big white pines around it. There was a rich farm, now covered by the lake. A red-clay road, over which mountain-wagons went down to Athens, ran in from of the house. The present paved highway follows the same route."
"Were you one of the original Prohibitionists?"
"No - I came for business purposes. I was a wood engraver in Gaston, Ohio - McKinley's home town. Wood engraving was widely used then for the sort of thing that photo engraving does now. I read about the new town, and wrote to ask if the promoters needed any engraving done for their advertising matter. They replied immediately, and urged me to come down."
Mr. Scarborough unlocked an old desk and brought out a couple of documents. One was a booklet of yellowed paper, the other a large map rolled on a stick.
"Here's a sample of my work," he said. 
The picture showed a cascade, foaming over its rocks. The ruins of a primitive mill-wheel showed at one side. The black and white lines of the engraving gave an impression of tumbling water much better than a photograph would have done. 
"In these days," continued Mr. Scarborough, "wood engraving was at the height of tis vogue. It was done on polished slabs of Turkey boxwood. This material was getting scarce and expensive, and one of the first things I did on coming to Georgia was to look for a substitute. The Southern Appalachians, as you know, have the largest variety of deciduous hardwoods in the world.
"I experimented with the mountain laurel that grows so abundantly along the creeks - the Georgians call it 'ivy.' In the North this plant is a mere shrub, but here it grows thirty feet tall and is sometimes twelve inches in diameter. I cured and polished some samples, and was delighted to find that it would do admirably - it was the right texture, and worked easily. I sent a number of specimens to other engravers, and they were much pleased. The stuff was cheap and easy to get, and I pictured a thriving business in laurel-weed."
"Did the business develop?"
Mr. Scarborough laughed. "Nothing turns out the way we expect it. Wood engraving as a commercial process was soon obsolete. It was reduced to the level of an 'art.' There wasn't any money in it. But once I got down here I couldn't get away. I sold my business in Ohio, and brought my family. 
"You can't imagine the enthusiasm we felt in those days. The combined appeal of cheap land, free water-power, and a temperance town was irresistible. I first came in October, and it seemed like paradise - the air so crisp and sweet, and the abundant streams, the bright-colored woods, the mountains on the horizon. We spent our afternoon exploring the country with a horse and buggy. Of course, the real estate men were busy - as you can see from this map."
Mr. Scarborough unrolled his large sheet and laid it on the table. There was plenty of rich coloring. The lake was bright blue, the parks were green, the building-lots bugs, and the streets white. Such names as "Michigan Boulevard," "Georgia Street," and "Indian Esplanade" struck the eye. There were "seminary grounds" to the west and "iron mines" to the east. The iron mines were colored a sultry read to indicate the richness of the ore. 
"Did the streets have to be so crooked?" I asked.
"Why, of course! The advertisements promised every man a mountain view. The streets had to follow the tops of the ridges in order to keep the promise. A. J. Reynolds did the surveying, and Sibley and Davenport the promoting. Pretty soon people were swarming in here from Maine to Kansas. The dam was built and a band-pavilion put in the middle of the lake. There was a boat-house with a steam boat and a whole fleet of new boats. Miles of board walks were built all over town. There were five factories, two brick-yards, and a mining company."
"What about that mine? I didn't know there was any iron in Georgia - at least this part of it."
"Curious thing, the iron mine. Over beyond the lakes, on what is now the college farm, a quantity of iron ore was mined clear back before the Civil War. It was one of the first deposits ever worked in the South. The ore was hauled to a smelting plant at Porter's Mills, five miles from here. But the mine had been worked out long before the town was started. It merely gave the promoters a chance to take in a lot of Northern suckers. For a time money flowed like a stream. The big boom lasted for four years - and then came the panic of 1893. In the nation-wide disaster, the Demorest boom blew up and burst."
"Most of the people left, of course?"
"All that could get away, got. But some of us had put all we had into the place. We decided to dig in and stick it out. For a while we lived by taking in each other's washing, so to speak. The climate was mild and wood plentiful. Fortunately we'd built comfortable houses, Northern style. We had plastered walls, bricked-up basements, and furnaces. We planted gardens and orchards. Country produce was cheap. We saved on shoe-polish by pouring vinegar on the under-side of a stove-lid, and swabbing it on our shoes. We still had a few pennies left to drop into the collection-plate for the heathen.
"At my rate the promoters and all their frothy followers had been eliminated. The mining company had been the first to go, and then the bathtub factory. They made a feeding tub that could be used as a table when not being bathed in. We had a young engineer down from Boston who was just out of technological college. He did a pretty good job on the dam, but wasted a lot of money on a cable-system that was to transmit power from the waterfall to some factories up near the railway station - a distance of fully two miles. It was mechanically ridiculous. The old ruined trestle which was auto carry the cable could be seen for many years, until it finally rotted down.
"Our first substantial building was the Northern Methodist church - constructed of hand-made bricks taken out of the late-site. Then the back building, made of brick from near the iron mine. The Northern Methodists left with the big smash, and their church was abandoned. It was a picturesque ruin, with its Gothic windows all knocked out by bad boys. The big bell hung silent in the steeple, and was used as a roosting-place for bats and pigeons. Then the Southern Methodists built a church and bought the bell. The Baptists flourished, because they had their roots in the region. Whatever Yankees remained got together and founded a Congregational Church, which still persists, though feebly."
"What really kept the town going, after the boom broke?"
"Three things, I should say. Some of us hung on to our factories. In fact, the most successful business in the place - the saddletree factory - didn't come in until after the panic. My own small factory, which I started when the engraving went out, is still going and its output is increasing. First I made furniture, and then I invented a portable chair for dentists. It could be packed on horseback, and had quite a sale in South America and Australia. But we've practically quite making them. Now I make handles for the broom factory, and apple boxes, and ironing-boards for Sears Roebuck. All that sort of thing. We don't have any 'labor difficulties.' The same men have worked for me for years. Maybe they ought to be 'organized' - but they aren't. Class-consciousness hasn't hit us yet.
"The second thing that saved the town was the introduction of apple orchards. In fact, Mr. Straight, who came here from Indiana, was the first commercial apple-grower in Georgia. Our red-clay hills, combined with the mountain climate, are capable of producing beautiful apples. But the business is now going out. A combination of causes - you'll have to see the apple men about it.
"And of course the third enterprise that held us together was the college. My daughter is on the faculty now. The college has a history all on its own - you could write a book about it. The founder, old Brother Spence, was a most remarkable man."
"Would you still come to Georgia, if you were able to start all over again?"
"I certainly would! You can't make money here, but it's the best country I've ever lived in. My life has been busy and happy, with my family about me. Five sons and one daughter - and my wife was living until two years ago. My second son died of pneumonia while in college, but the others are doing well. They all have an artistic and inventive turn. Two are technicians in the movie business, one superintends my factory here, and the other is an architect in Atlanta. And now some of my grandchildren are ready to start out for themselves.
"Don't ask an old fellow what he thinks of the town at present. A new civilization is coming up, and I don't fully understand it. I'm rather gland we remained a mountain village, and didn't grow into a city. We've had our ups and downs - and we reached our lowest point about five years ago. 
"The old settlers had lost their grip, and the brightest of the young people had gone away. The town was desperately shabby, with houses unpainted and coal-piles in the front yards. Our water system was so inadequate that people on the hilltops had water only four hours a day. They had to store it in tubs and buckets. Shortly after the 1929 depression the town began to burn down. House after house went up in smoke. People needed money - insurance money or any other kind - you can draw your own conclusions. 
"Worst of all, the government of the town fell into the hands of men who cared for nothing but the reduction of taxes. The public schools deteriorated. The mayor and council needed wood, so they set down trees in the cemetery. They topped the shade-trees along the streets down to unsightly stubs. It was murderous. At last the schoolhouse burned down - spite work, everybody said - and the children had to be parceled out between the churches and the city hall. Something had to be done.
"so we elected a new mayor - one of the college faculty - and a new council. We got money from the WPA to pave our main street and put in a new water system. A large fireproof schoolhouse - my son is the architect - is now being put up. The mayor recently divided the town into four sections and offered prizes to the one which showed the most improvement. There has been a universal cleaning and painting and repairing of property. Of course the WPA wages have helped a lot. Whether the improvement will last I can't say.
"You must talk to the youngsters if you really want to know what's going on. I don't worry about the young people - they have just as good stuff in them as we ever had. But they confront a new age. There aren't any pioneer lands for them to go too. No more temperance towns in the wilderness. No more wood engravers in paradise! It's up to the youngsters to work it out."
Ga. - Excellent
Wood Engraver in Paradise
The rise of a town (Demorest) showing circumstances of settling, early history, vicissitudes, and present status, intelligently told by a shrewd observer who was an early settler.
Special features: Valuable implications of the predatory promotional element in developing towns and the comparative inability of insecurely developed towns to withstand depressions.
Names changed. None of character changed, but apparently no other. 
