Orange Co.
Chapel Hill, N.C.
10/4/28
N.O. Foster
Ed Oneal and Margaret Oneal
The farm of Ed Oneal and Margaret (McNair) Oneal is a mile and a half south of Chapel Hill, North Carolina on U.S. Highway number fifteen, a few hundred yards north of Morgan Creek.
Ed Oneal was one of nine children. The Oneals trace their family back to Ireland. Ed was born on a farm in Chatham County just across the line from Orange County. He left school in the eighth grade in order to help his parents. After his marriage, he settled on a farm near Hillsboro, the county-seat of Orange County. Later he moved to a farm two miles from Chapel Hill on U.S. highway No. 15 leading from Chapel Hill to Durham. After the birth of her fourth child, Mrs. Oneal died. Oneal's widowed sister kept house for him for a year.
Further east on U.S. highway No. 15 lived Margaret McNair. The McNair home was in Orange County a few yards from the Durham County line. Margaret was the youngest of nine children, the other eight having married and left house. When one of the older girls got married she wished to have a home wedding. A friend got the license in Durham, the county-seat of Durham County, and the ceremony would have to be performed in Durham County. So the service took place in the dirt road a few yards from the house just beyond where the road leaves Orange County. Margaret was very much interested in school; but when she was about fifteen a series of attacks on white girls was made by four negro men in the community and Mrs. McNair kept her daughter at home except on the days could be driven to and from school in a buggy. So she quit school in the ninth grade.
Mrs. McNair was too feeble to work on the farm but she did practically all the house work. McNair was old and unable to do much of the farm work and too poor to hire it done. So Margaret became "the man of all work". 
"But I was strong and liked to work in the field," said Margaret. "I plowed, picked, chopped, and did everything to be done on a farm except mow hay and cut wheat with a cradle. I could set out as many tobacco plants as any man. But I was a poor cotton picker. Papa had to sit in a chair but he could pick almost as much as me." Margaret summed it all up by saying, "I was 'drove hard and put up muddy' all my life." A farmer may drive his horses hard in the rain but in order to protect their hide, he will carry them as soon as the mud is dry.
Mother McNair knew that her strength was failing and she was tempted to keep her daughter at home; but she tried to be unselfish and one day said to her daughter, "Margaret, I'll be gone one of these days and I'll die happier if I know you are in the care of some good man." After this Margaret began to go out more with the young people. At a neighbor's she met widower Ed Oneal and Ed became a steady caller at the McNair home. The matter was not discussed, but the McNair parents began to suspect that Margaret was thinking seriously of taking her mother's advice. "One afternoon," Margaret told me, "I put on my Sunday things and told Mama that I would spend the night at the Graham's (near Hillsboro). I was married that night. The next day I went back home and told her that I was married and had come back for the rest of my things. She wanted to know why I didn't tell her as I left home and I said that, 'You didn't ask me or say nothing that would make it easy for me to tell you.' Ed already had his furniture and I just moved in and took charge of the house and began to help him with the farm work."
Ed was able to buy a livery-stable in Chapel Hill for a small sum because the automobile was beginning to drive the horse and buggy off the road. He turned it into a drayage business. His time was now divided between hauling and farming. A few years later they moved to a small farm a mile south of Chapel Hill and six years ago they bought 73 acres on which they family now lives. Ed was a strong man and a willing worker. When he was not farming he was helping build road, erecting buildings for the university, delivering sand from the bed of Morgan Creek to building contractors or selling stable manure to amateur gardeners in Chapel Hill.
In 1936, Ed became ill and a doctor sent him to Duke hospital where his case was diagnosed as diabetes. Margaret informed me that "Everybody who goes to Duke has diabetes. But after thirty days the doctors said he also had anginapectoris" (she pronounced it correctly). Those two diseases were too much for an old man, and he died in August of 1938 at the age of 68. I visited him a year before his death and found him in bed. Two months after his death I again called at the home. Margaret said that Ed had been able to do nothing for the last two years but direct the boys or scold them for their indifference. The two youngest boys sat with us and embarrassed their mother by trying to show me that they "knew all the answers" to my questions. A week later I returned and the boys left us alone. We sat on the back porch; and Margaret opened the screen door about once every two minutes to spit tobacco juice into the yard. "After Ed took to his bed, he would keep after me to go into town and get his old age pension. His keeping on asking it bothered me so that I asked Mrs. Jackson next door to see what she could find out. I told her that I would rather do without it but that Ed said he was entitled to it. Mrs. Jackson reported it to a welfare office in Chapel Hill. The government sent some girls out here and they asked all sorts of questions about our parents, grand parents and how much our nine children were making." I suggested that the government wanted to be sure they were in need. "But they gave us only $10.00 a month," she countered, "and Smith one here gets $15 and olde man Garner across town gets $12." Her eyes were dry but there were tears in her voice as she said that "He's been gone only two months but this seems like a longer time than the thirty-eight years I've been married to him. My boys are all single and live at home, or spend the night here anyhow, and I said to them the other night, 'Boys, I'll soon be an old woman and now that your Papa's gone, you'll have to support me.'" Margaret seems perfectly at ease. She made no apology for her clothes or her snuff. Her dress and stockings were made of plain cotton, and her hair was completely hidden by a black cloth, pulled tightly around her ears and tied at the back. Her brown eyes, deeply set in her forehead, looked straight into mine as she asked what I was going to "make of all the things I was asking about."
The four oldest children are married and are doing well. Margaret's own children, five boys, say that they will take care of her. The children's schooling has [? 13989] in the Chapel Hill schools. John is twenty-four and is working as a mechanic at the Tuft's Motor Company in Chapel Hill. Bill is twenty-two. He was a "star" foot-ball player in High School. After graduating, he took a job with the Chapel Hill A. and P. Store. Sam was also good in football in High School and last year given a scholarship at Wake Forest College but his father's illness cut off the support he had expected from home and he left college after a few weeks. He got a job with the state highway commission but a truck turned over and injured his shoulder. The state paid the hospital bill and continued his salary for four months after he returned home. This summer the case was settled, and he was promised another job as soon as the state needed more full time men. He refuses to write the highway commission but thinks they aught to write him. He does odd jobs around while looking for steady work. Charles is 17. He got some trash in his eyes this summer and has lost the sight of one of them. The other eye is being treated at McPherson's hospital in Durham. He can't study but he is attending classes in the local High School. The coach thinks well of him as a foot-ball player; and while he is not able to play this fall, he follows the team and profits by the coaching. [? 13990] little Johnnie is twelve. He is the only one of the boys who does not look like an athlete. He had pneumonia as two years of age and this summer was treated twice at Watts hospital in Durham for rheumatic fever and St. Vitus's dance. He is in the sixth grade, and last year go a grade of "s" on each of his subjects. 
Margaret is proud of her record for thrift. "I can make money and I can make it go a long way," she said, "I can make a dime go as far as most people can with a quarter. I've had to save. In the panic, Ed lost the farm. The boys had to be fed, clothed, and kept in school We have had twenty acres in cultivation but have raised no cotton, tobacco. A colored man tends three acres of corn on shares. The boys and I work fourteen acres of corn. We raise some hay. We make our own flour, meal and most of our own meat. We sell our food than we buy. We have a whole acre fenced in for a garden. Last year, I canned several hundred quarts of vegetables and fruit. I sell vegetables, both canned and fresh. I have four cows, and one month I sold $71.00 worth of milk, butter and butter-milk. One summer I gave my family all the eggs they wanted and sold ten dozen a week. I sell dozens of chickens each year I seldom send anything to town; people drive out here and get it." A model T sits in the yard, but the family is unable to operate a car.
The Oneal house sits two hundred yards east of the highway. Here are a few oak and chinaberry trees on the southeast and north sides of the sand-clay yard. The house is made of weather-beaten, unpainted boards. The interior is sealed with rough unpainted weather-boarding. Half of the roof is covered with tin and the rest with wooden shingles. The ground slopes gently from the highway to the house and then more rapidly to the barn about a hundred yards away. The well is thirty-five feet deep and is open, except that a rook has been placed above it; the shingles are covered with moss and the structure is so rotten that Margaret would like to have it torn down before it falls into the well. Back of the well is an ice-house or house-made refrigerator used for keeping the milk. 
There are six rooms in the house. The doors, windows and back porch are screened. The living room has a settle and four rockers with leather seats, a day-bed, a piano, and a phonograph. Margaret wishes she could exchange the Edison for a radio, so she could get the news. On the walls are two enlarged photographs of the relatives and a copy of a painting of a dog setting a wild duck on a lake. Each of the four bedrooms has a double bed of attractive wooden frames. There are inexpensive rugs in the living-room and in the two bed-rooms through which I passed. The kitchen is the plainest room in the house, containing a store with a box of wood close by, a large table covered with a checkered cotton cloth, a cupboard and eight cane-bottomed chairs. The rough floor is bare.
Margaret is a devoted member of the small United Church in Chapel Hill. The boys are not members of any church, but are enrolled in the Baptist Sunday School, which they attend irregularly. On one of the porch chairs I saw a copy of the Christian Sun, the state official organ of the Christian-Congregational Church. The family subscribes to the farm weeklies; but when the father became ill they stopped the daily paper.
The Oneals had furnished their house before the medical bills began to come in. The first set of children never had a doctor and all the illness of the family has come in the last few years. The fee of thirty dollars for the doctor was the only expense counted with the birth of the first children; but when the last child came a nurse had to be employed for three weeks at a total cost of forty-five dollars.
Margaret says that "A woman's place is in the home and I see my men folks vote for me. Ed always voted straight Democratic and my oldest boy votes like his Dad."
Margaret thinks she would like to move into town. She is fifty-four years old and beginning to fail in health. Two of the boys eat dinner and supper in town and she would like to have them at home for each meal. She thinks she can get a large house and rent enough rooms to pay her own rent. She agreed with me when I suggested that if she had no garden, cows or chickens she would have to lean heavily upon her boys and that the boys might soon find girls who would want to have "the protection of a good man." She said the farm belonged to a relation and that they had not paid any rent during the last two years; but next year they would have to pay $100.00 annual cash rent and without Ed to guide the boys it looked mighty hard to raise. 
