November 18, 1938.
Luline L. Mabry.
Miss Emma Hood
and mother
Mrs. Melissa Hood.
Hendersonville, N.C.
Route 5.
Across the way a little old lady in a neat black and white print dress works with a hoe, bending low now and then to pick up a gladiolus bulb which she has just dug from the ground to be placed in a dry safe place for the winter.
This little lady is now past 80, and while her hair is snow white, it is still thick and wavy, always neatly combed, with its curling ends tucked away by bone hairpins to match the hair.
Many years ago she and her husband purchased some 20 acres of land, built themselves a small home and took up their business of farming and rearing their family. Today this little lady lives serenely and with comfort with her only unmarried daughter who has gracefully reached what is termed middle age. Their present home is a five-room bungalow built on what was a part of their original farm.
But since this is a story not so much of the mother as of the faithful daughter who has made this happy mode of life possible through her personal efforts, let us go back some 30 years to the time when the daughter, Miss Emma Hood, then about 19, started out to make her way in the world.
At that time there was very little a young girl might do to make a living in this section except enter one of the hosiery mills close to her place of residence. So this is what she did.
Year after year this daughter applied herself to learning the various branches of work done in a knitting mill, while, one by one, her sisters and brothers married and started homes and families of their own. Miss Hood has worked in every department of a local hosiery mill, having been head of one or more departments at various times.
Always she chose the single life and was satisfied to reside with her mother and father as long as the father lived. His death occurred about eight years ago.
Gradually as the town of Hendersonville grew and expanded the small farm of Mr. and Mrs. Hood seemed to be creeping nearer and nearer to the little town. Then the boom days loomed, and with Mr. Hood in failing health, they were persuaded to have the farm sub-divided, in which process they soon found themselves with numerous new neighbors in new houses and the Hood farm was no more.
Miss Hood purchased a lot on a nearby street and built a small brick bungalow for herself and her parents. After a short residence there, however, there still was a nostalgic sentiment in the hearts of them all for a home on their original farm land. So the little brick bungalow was sold and Miss Hood purchased a choice lot close to what had been their farm home, and here she built a larger and better brick bungalow on a portion of the land which they had previously sold. This today is the home of Miss Emma Hood and her mother, Mrs. Melissa Hood.
The house is one of those conveniently arranged bungalows with two bedrooms, living room, dining room, large kitchen and bath, with a roomy back porch and a lovely porch extending across the front and one side of the house. In summer this front porch is an inviting bower of house plants, and numerous grandchildren come to enjoy the swing on Granny's porch, and always to thrust their messy little hands into her spicy cookie jar.
Inside, the living room is well furnished, as well as the bedroom at the left, and dainty snow white curtains billow back and forth in the summer breezes from all the windows. In the roomy kitchen there is a piece of antique furniture which would excite the envy of almost any woman who might see it. It is an old solid walnut dresser which has been handed down through three generations of people who loved nice things. On the front porch one may always drop down on a friendly old bench, hand made of course, which Mrs. Hood says is well over 100 years old. It is just one of the family, and a very dear member at that.
If one wonders why Miss Hood must bear the entire expense of the home it is not difficult to realize that the long and expensive illness connected with her father's last days easily consumed the proceeds from the sale of the little farm. Then, also, much of the land came back to Mrs. Hood as was so often the case in boom transactions, and she now has sufficient land to produce a goodly portion of the winter feed for the fine cow they keep. Despite her advanced years Mrs. Hood is very active and still helps in making the yearly crop, especially in the garden which just about supplies their table during the summer. She may be seen almost any summer day working among her flowers and small vegetables at the back of the house. A few good hens keep them in eggs most of the time.
When a neighbor runs in to discuss the illness of some friend, or the name of some doctor is mentioned in the course of the conversation, Mrs. Hood is more than apt to say, "Well, I never had a doctor in my life an' I'm too old to start it now". If you should ask about the times any of her eight children were born she will still declare she never had a doctor in her life. Hiss Hood, also, is blessed with almost perfect health and it has been very few dollars indeed they have had to spend for medical care. However, if either of them should be in real need of medical aid, of course a doctor would be called.
They have a fair understanding of a balanced diet and are able to provide themselves with the best of food which is evidenced by their splendid health records. Miss Hood's long hours in the mill, her very early rising each morning to enable her to take care of her cow, her swift return from work late in the afternoon to milk and feed the cow before dark and her church work all seem to combine to fill out her serene and satisfactory life, yet leave her some time each evening for radio programs of her choice, and a limited amount of reading. She realizes that if she could have had a broader education she might have a greater earning capacity, but when she was going to school she could go only about three months in a year, so she considers that she is making a good living with an education equal to about the present-day eighth grade.
Life has in no way passed Miss Hood by. She made her own decision
to remain a spinster, since she is a very comely, agreeable and capable woman, always well dressed, and happy in her work and mode of living. She much prefers working in the mill to any other sort of employment open to her. In her own words: "No, indeed, I'd not exchange places with anyone I know who is working at any other kind of employment".
Then thinking back over the past, as she recalls that the first year she worked in a mill her weekly pay was but three dollars, she makes a
mental comparison which brings an extra sparkle to her eyes.
"Why, there's just no comparison between the old days and those of the present. When I think of all the improvements we have now over the old conditions I can hardly see how we stood it. Now we have lovely modern light working quarters, warm in winter and cool in summer, with flowers growing all about the grounds, and the very kindest and most considerate of employers to work for, with what I consider good pay for what we do. Anyway, I know I can live on what I make, and I think that anyone making $40 or $50 a month ought to be able to manage very well".
"No, I cant afford a car, but I do have my own home and have had it for years, and it is easy to pay my transportation back and forth to the mill. When I have to go to town I am perfectly able to walk the two miles each way, and I'd much rather live out here than to live in town".
Recently the subject of politics was a topic of conversation and Miss Hood expressed the opinion that one should vote according to his or her own conscience, and vote for the candidate who seems best qualified to hold the office he is seeking.
When Sunday comes all the work and responsibility of the week are laid aside and as the little churchbell chimes in the nearby church both Miss Hood and her mother are always to be seen making their way up the road to Sunday School and church services in the little church they have supported and identified themselves with over a period of many, many years.
Says Miss Hood, "What if the churches dont always reach all the people? They must keep on trying anyway, and it seems to me the world is in more need of religion today than it has ever been. Then, too the people ought to be glad to give a part of their income to some church. It is a good influence, and much better than to be spending their money on foolish movies and silly amusements the way so many people do these days. I believe in amusements of the right sort, like clean sports for young people, but I dont approve of the fast driving of automobiles and the drinking so many people are doing now".
"The church is the best institution we have, and the most necessary, and people should all be glad of an opportunity of being identified with some church. They do so much good with the money that is given them. Not that I think unfortunate people should expect the churches to take care of them except in extreme cases of sickness, but I mean that  churches help keep up so many other necessary institutions."
A sweet and tender incident is fresh in the memories of many members of the little church in Mud Creek. On last Mothers' Day as the services drew to a close two chairs were placed just below the pulpit and the minister asked the two oldest mothers of the congregation to come forward and occupy these seats of honor. Then, one by one, each person present filled down the aisle and dropped a flower or two into the laps of these two venerable white haired mothers, until at last they made a lovely picture as they sat smiling beneath the avalanche of flowers and greeting their friends and acquaintances of many years. One of these ladies was Mrs. Hood and the other a life-long friend of hers who is about two years younger. Mrs. Hood will not forget that day.
