Date of first writing: February 8, 1939
Person interviewed: Thermond Bennett
Address: New Bern, N. C.
Occupation: Mail Carrier
Writer: Mary M. Phillips, New Bern, N. C.
Reviser: Edwin Massengill
No. of words: About 3,000

CONTRACTING THE MAILS	

For three years now I have carried the mail, and
I have to go six days a week, rain or shine. I still say,
however, that it is the easiest job I ever had. I hope that
before my time runs out a law will be passed making it a
permanent job instead of a contract going to the lowest
bidder every four years. It is funny now, but I didn't
want the job when I first got the chance of it. I had
always stayed around my home town, and I had always been
able to get a job of some kind.
I took the place of a friend of mine who quit
because of trouble with his wife. You see, he was running
around with another man's wife, and his wife just pulled
out. Then he give up his job. I made a bid for the contract
and got it. I had to raise a sixteen thousand dollar bond,
but that was not so much trouble.
Before it come time to take the job, our boy was
born. The baby was not well and just lived twenty-seven days.
We were both hurt mighty bad, but I got along better than
my wife did, as I could get out and work and forget about it.
My contract had called for ninety miles but when
we got here we found that it was nearer ninety-two miles.
I stayed a week to help I Perey, the fellow I got to help me,
learn the route and post offices. At that time there was
eleven stops but two were cut off in a little while after I
got the job. Some of these post offices were in stores;
some, in filling stations; and some, in separate buildings.
After I thought that Perey knowed the offices all right I
went back to work on my old lumber truck. That was work
that I knowed something about and liked.
My daddy was a farmer and made a good living, but
we never had much money. He didn't own his land and moved
around so much that Mama used to tell him that every time
the chickens heard a wagon they would set down in the yard
and cross their legs to be tied.
I was the oldest one of the crop, and there was a
big crowd of we children. The one next to me was a boy, too,
and he married my wife's sister. They have parted and gone
back together so many times that I can't remember the number.
They have three children now. I wish they would give me the
oldest boy, for I love him better than anything I ever saw,
I do believe. I reckon he loves me as much as I do him, and
he'd stay with me, too, if they would let him. My brother
works with the WPA.
My oldest sister works in a beauty shop, and the
next girl works in a hosiery mill. She must make good money
for she wears pretty clothes, but she always says that she
don't have any money to give Mama to help the other girls.
My other sister keeps house for a man in my home town. She
would be pretty if she won't so fat. She's not got a bit of
shape. The next one stays home and helps with the work. She
can plow as good as a man, and she had rather work in the
field than in the house. She is about to get married now.
The youngest girl is going to school, and she says she is
going to leave just as soon as she finishes school. The
youngest child is a boy. That youngun has been humored and
petted so much that he is rotten. He gets anything he wants
and does just like he pleases.
I can't say anything about other people being
mischievous as many scrapes as I got in. The pupils in
school called me "Little Caesar" because I was such a bully.
It was mostly bluff, but it didn't make any difference as
long as it worked. In the wintertime we would roll up
snowballs and, I mean, it really snows up in them hills.
These balls would be as big as a barn and would be filled
with sticks and rocks. Then long after the snow had
melted everywhere else these piles of snow would be standing
in the schoolyard.
I had a little trouble in school once which I have
never forgotten. I hit a boy in the head with a rock and the
teacher wanted to whip me. I told her I'd hit her if she
tried it and went home, but my dad sent me back the next
day.
I always have liked to drive, trucks or cars, it
didn't make no difference, and I started to drive when I
was about twelve years old. At that time an old doctor had
the only car in the whole county, and it was the only one
I had seen. He kept it in the barn, for people didn't have
garages then. I stayed with his son one Saturday night, and
when we got up next morning he had gone off on horseback and
left work for us to go up on the mountain and salt the cattle.
We pushed the car out of the barn, for neither one
of us had ever driv any and we didn't want to tear the
barn down. After we got the car in the yard we started to
cranking on it. It seemed like we cranked three days, but
by and by we got it started. Up the mountain we went, and we
got along fine, from then on, I driv right much for the old
man, every chance I got.
I finished high school when I was eighteen. I
reckon the teachers just got tired of having me around, so
they let me pass. I sure didn't know enough to quit school.
An soon as I got through school, one of the richest
men in the county give me a job in his hardware store. Papa
wanted me to help him on the farm, but I felt like I had to
be out where I could see different people. I worked there for
a long time--two years or more--then I was put on a truck. I
went to all the surrounding towns, getting things to be used
in the store and hauling different articles from one place to
another.
T don't see how I have managed to drive as long as
I have and as fast as I always do without getting killed or
killing somebody. One day I was driving a big International
truck loaded with lumber. I went around a curve and sailed
right into a whole herd of cattle. Cows and lumber was
scrambled all over the road and all over the running board and
even up on the hood. Three of the cows got killed, and one
get a leg broke and had to be shot. In a little while the
man that owned the cows come up. He had a fit; he ripped
and cussed. He swore that he would sue the company I worked
for. He knowed better than that for there is a law up there
that say that the person walking in front and behind of a
herd of cattle must wave a red flag. The man just lost his
cows, for he was too stingy to hire any help. Anyway, it
cost me nearly $100 to fix the truck. I have certainly had
a lot of narrow escapes. 
Now, all our time won't spent in drinking and
hunting for something to drink when I was young. We had a
lot of fun. Most everybody in the mountains could fiddle,
pick a banjo or a guitar, or blow a harp. Crowds would get
together and would play and sing pretty near all night. It
won't no trouble to get up a dance, and the old folks could
dance as good as the young people. I have been to a square
dance and got home just in time to change my clothes and get
to work. I didn't mind it then. We used to have bakes up
on the Mountain. For a long time they were stag parties
and wild parties. Now all the women go the same as the men.
There was three or four years when I went around
with every girl in that part of the country. It won't nothing
to see three in a crowd that I had been to see. I was getting
on about twenty-four when I happened to see my wife at a dance
one night. Oh, I had been seeing her all my life, but that
was the first night I ever noticed her. I danced with her
and asked to take her home. She wouldn't let me, for she
had come with another boy. I went up there the next day,
though, and she went to ride with me. I quit going with
any other girl. I went to see her regular, but she went with
everybody she wanted to. I even give her a ring and she
didn't quit. On Sunday night before we got married the next
Saturday she told me that she had the toothache, and she was
cutting up so that I went home. The very next day I found
out that she went to ride with another fellow right after I
left.
It was the next week that we decided to get married.
When I got up to the house, her mammy was crying
and so was she. She asked me if I had asked her daddy if he
cared. I hadn't, and she told me that she wouldn't leave unless
he said it was all right. I didn't ask him but just told her
it was all right. We went to Virginia to get married, for we
didn't want folks there to know about it. Newly married people
got serenaded too bad. When we got back, the women from all
around the town had come in and cooked up a big dinner.
I didn't know that my folks didn't want me to get
married, but they didn't speak to me or her either for over
a month. We stayed with her daddy for two weeks, then we
went on our honeymoon. We spent two weeks on that.
I soon went out to hunt for a house. A man told
me that we could live in his house free just to have somebody
there to keep it up. I went down and bought a bed, a dresser,
a safe, a table to eat on, a cabinet to keep the dishes in, a
cook stove, and some chairs. The store sent the things up
to the house and I hunted up some dishes and cooking things,
When I went to supper I asked my wife if she didn't want to
go home. She thought I meant to her daddy's, and she said she
did. I went back to the store and got some rations and
knives, forks and spoons, and went to our house. I built
a fire in the fireplace and then went after her. She was
some kind of surprised when she found out that it was where
we were to live. We stayed there that night and from then on.
Mama soon got to speaking and we lived all right. We lived
cheap, too. Our groceries didn't cost but about $2 a week.
We had a cow and a garden and they helped, but now it takes
about all I can make to pay for food. It sure makes a
difference when you run a bill. Folks back home don't know
what a grocery bill is. If they want anything and don't have
the money handy they do without, but now we say, "Charge it."
I played on the ball team in the summertime. I
had been married only about two years when I got my face
busted with a wild ball. The pitcher musta been trying to
mash my face for the ball hit me square on the jaw. It broke
the jawbone and cut my south and eye. The doctor didn't do
much good in his treatment for I will always be scarred up.
I didn't stop playing ball for long, though. It is still
my favorite game, but I don't play much now.
The next year my aunt's husband wrote and asked if
I didn't want to go North to work. He was in charge of the
line work of the telephone company, and he said I could get
a good job. Well, we packed our clothes and left. We stayed
four months and then had to go back home because my wife's
mother was took sick.
We didn't go back, for I got a job driving a truck.
Getting a job never worried me. I have already had two offers
of jobs when this mail route job is finished. After I got on
the truck I was on the road all the time. That caused my wife
to stay home by herself, but some of our people was there
about every day. She was smart and stayed busy with the
chickens and cows and garden. She canned everything she
could get in a jar.
We folks were not stingy but we were saving; we
eat good and we didn't go in debt for food. There has been
many a night when we didn't have a thing for supper but corn
bread cooked with soda and buttermilk and sweet milk. We
raised all the chickens we could use, and we got all the eggs
we needed. Vegetables were plentiful. The women learned
how to can most anything. They could can fresh meat and
when the can was opened it was hard to tell it from fresh-killed meat. 
We really lived at home then, but now our
grocery bill gets higher every pay day.
At first my wife was satisfied with two new dresses
a year, now she's got to have a new one every few days. Her
shoes has got to match and I knowed her when she went barefooted,
except on Sunday. I bought an electric refrigerator
not long ago, and it would be mighty hard to do without
running water now, even if I was raised to carry water from
a spring down the hill, a quarter of a mile from the house.
My helper hadn't been down here but a few weeks
when the postal inspector come down and told him that the
contract would either have to be in his name or I would have
to live here. He sent for me and I come down. I didn't
want to lose the contract, so he quit and I took the job.
From then until November, I boarded. I wrote home and had
me a trailer built so my expenses wouldn't be so high. When
the trailer was finished I went up there and got it and my
wife. She raised the devil for she didn't want to leave
"mommy". That's one time I won an argument; she come back
with me. We packed the things we would need in the trailer
and stored the rest at her aunt's. I was sorry for her when we
first got here. She didn't know a soul and I had to be gone
all day. I carried her with me when ever she would go but
that was a long tiresome ride. She cried all the time at
first. Then when I thought I would have to send her back she
met some women and did not get so lonesome.
That trailer was big enough for a year or two, but
then the most things got wrong with it; it was too hot; it
was too crowded; it was too dark; and Lord knows what else.
It come out after awhile. She wanted an apartment so she could
have more company. I put her off and she went home and stayed
three months. When she come back I was ready to rent two
apartments. She got out and found one and was nearly moved
when I got in from carrying the mail. Her friends had helped.
It was better, for we got a nice screened porch which was so
cool.
She got along better then and wasn't so homesick.
Then I bought her a car to ride around in and everything was
fine. I don't know what she'll want next. I bought a breakfast
room suite and a living room suite. We are looking for another
baby in a few weeks now and she told me a few nights ago that she
had to have a crib a bassinet, and a carriage. Babies are
sure expensive in a town, Her friends give her a stork shower
not long ago, and she got enough things for three babies but
she still buys,
I am a member of the city fire department, and I
have to stay at the fire house a lot when I'm in town. She
don't like that at all. She expects me to sit right at
home with her, but I've just got to get out after staying
in that trunk all day. I have sent for one of my sisters
to come and stay till the baby comes. After that gets here,
she'll be so busy she'll be glad for me to leave.
I will hate just as bad to leave here as I hated
to come. I have a lot of friends here, and I like the fishing
and crabbing. We can't have such sports in the hills. I
will miss the people I meet on the mail route. I take
passengers with me for all the sacks are locked. But I
can't charge anybody for riding. I would buy license, but
another man already has the franchise for the run. I meet
up with all kinds of people. One of my regular passengers
is a man who goes down with a bag or parched peanuts and sells
them on the road. He makes his living that way.
I have had to quit hauling people. The man that
had the franchise was afraid that I was getting too much of
his money, so he reported me to the traffic control board.
I can still haul my family, and nobody knows how big a family
I have. It gets bigger every day, especially with pretty
girls,
I just have a little better than a year left to stay
here. It will be hard to go back to the mountains to live, but
I reckon I can if I have to. Here's hoping that I will be
able to be the low bidder again, even if I have to take less
money.
